United Nations
A/C.2/71/SR.25
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
Official Records
Distr.: General 24 January 2017
Original: English
Second Committee
Summary record of the 25th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Friday, 18 November 2016, at 10 a.m
Chair: Mr. Djani (Indonesia)
Contents
Statement by the Chair
Agenda item 19: Sustainable development (continued)
(e) Implementation of the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa (continued)
(j) Sustainable mountain development (continued)
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Management Section (dms@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
16-20480 (E)
in in 11 iiwwmwtwv
Please recycle
A/C.2/71/SR.25
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Statement by the Chair
1. The Chair said that despite the early submission of draft resolutions allowing delegations additional time to consult their capitals and engage fully in informal consultations, the Committee had taken action on only three draft resolutions thus far. Even after three more draft resolutions were considered that morning, 30 draft proposals would remain before the Committee. Expressing concern at that situation, he urged delegations to redouble their efforts to conclude their negotiations and finalize texts. Draft resolutions with programme budget implications for the 2016-2017 biennium would have to be examined by both the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions and the Fifth Committee, increasing the urgency for the Committee to reach agreement and complete its work.
Agenda item 19: Sustainable development (continued) (A/C.2/71/L.20/Rev. 1)
Draft resolution on entrepreneurship for sustainable development (A/C.2/71/L.20/Rev. 1 *)
2. Ms. Keren (Israel) introduced draft resolution A/C.2/71/L.20/Rev.1* and noted that Macedonia, Rwanda and Uruguay had become sponsors. Entrepreneurship played a major role in the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Entrepreneurs created jobs that in turn led to economic gains, while social entrepreneurs promoted sustainable business practices and afforded opportunities to those who were furthest behind, thus creating social gains. They were inventors who could find innovative solutions to environmental degradation, climate change and other development challenges. The updated content of the draft resolution addressed a broad range of key issues, such as providing support to micro-, small and medium enterprises, mainstreaming entrepreneurship at the national policy level, promoting women and young entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs with disabilities, using data and indicators to measure the impact of policies concerning entrepreneurship, and creating an entrepreneurial culture that encouraged innovation and risk-taking and provided the necessary support structures.
3. She drew the Committee's attention to a revision of paragraph 26 of the draft resolution, which now read
“...decides to include the item entitled ‘Sustainable development' in the provisional agenda of its seventythird session, unless otherwise agreed.” She encouraged Member States to join the diverse group of sponsors of the draft resolution.
4. The Chair said that the draft resolution contained no programme budget implications, and announced that Guinea-Bissau, Grenada, Madagascar, Trinidad and Tobago had also become sponsors. A recorded vote had been requested.
5. Mr. Gioldassis (Greece) said that in accordance with Security Council resolution 817 (1993) and the subsequent General Assembly resolution 47/225, as well as the practices of the Committee, the first country that the representative of Israel had named as an additional sponsor of the draft resolution should be provisionally referred to for all purposes at the United Nations as the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, pending settlement of the difference that had arisen over its name.
6. Ms. Shurbaji (Syrian Arab Republic), speaking in explanation of vote before the voting, said that although her delegation recognized the positive contribution that entrepreneurship could make to sustainable development, it opposed the draft resolution. Israel should not be allowed to use the Committee as a platform to trumpet its commitment to development when the Israeli occupation was the main obstacle to development in the Occupied Palestinian Territory and the occupied Syrian Golan. Israeli measures that impeded development for the inhabitants of those areas, including confiscating agricultural land, charging exorbitant prices for small quantities of water, siphoning off natural resources, levelling and polluting the soil, burying toxic waste and drilling for oil and gas, had been amply documented in reports of the Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia and the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development. A majority of Member States had voted in favour of resolutions condemning those violations, including the resolutions on the occupied Syrian Golan and on Jerusalem. Before being allowed to submit a draft resolution on promoting sustainable development, Israel should be called on to openly acknowledge the obstacles that it placed in the path of development for the peoples under its occupation. The draft resolution under consideration was nothing more than an effort by Israel
2/5
16-20480
A/C.2/71/SR.25
to burnish its image, and made a mockery of the goal of leaving no one behind. Her delegation would vote against it.
7. Ms. Herity (Secretary of the Committee) said that the draft resolution had been reissued as document A/C.2/71/L.20/Rev.1* to reflect an additional sponsor.
8. Mr. Mebarki (Algeria), speaking on behalf of the Group of Arab States in explanation of vote before the voting, said that the Group's position on the draft resolution was based on the reports submitted by the Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia and the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, which had demonstrated clearly that the Israeli occupation was a major obstacle to development and poverty eradication for the inhabitants of the Occupied Palestinian Territory and the occupied Syrian Golan. Israel was deliberately destroying infrastructure in such vital sectors as water, energy, agriculture, communications and housing, and obstructing the domestic and foreign investments necessary to rehabilitate those sectors. The policies of Israel had vastly increased unemployment, especially among women and youth. Countless United Nations reports had documented flagrant Israeli violations of international humanitarian law, human rights law and United Nations resolutions. Israel had no right to submit a draft resolution on sustainable development. The Group of Arab States urged all Member States to vote against it.
9. A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Albania, Andorra, Angola, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cabo Verde, Cambodia, Canada, Central African Republic, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Czechia, Denmark, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Kenya, Kiribati, Latvia, Lesotho, Liberia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco,
Mongolia, Montenegro, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nauru, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Palau, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda, San Marino, Serbia, , Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Sudan, Spain, Suriname, Sweden, Switzerland, Tajikistan, Thailand, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, United States of America, Vanuatu, Viet Nam and Zambia.
Against:
Algeria, Bahrain, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Brunei Darussalam, Cuba, Djibouti, Egypt, Ghana, Indonesia, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Malaysia, Maldives, Mauritania, Morocco, Nicaragua, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, Turkey, United Arab Emirates, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) and Yemen.
Abstaining:
Bangladesh, China, Ecuador, Guinea, Mali, Niger, South Africa and Sri Lanka.
10. Draft resolution A/C.2/71/L.20/Rev.1*, as orally revised, was adopted by 123 votes to 30, with 8 abstentions.
11. Mr. Danon (Israel) said that when the first entrepreneurship for development resolution had been adopted four years previously, the aim had been to draw attention to the innate talent and creativity of all societies. The overwhelming support for the current draft resolution reflected a recognition of the link between entrepreneurship and the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals. The 112 sponsors of the draft resolution included nations from all regional groups and hundreds of millions of people in both developing and developed countries that understood that the creation of opportunities for entrepreneurs led to better opportunities for everyone everywhere.
12. Entrepreneurs were problem solvers who always thought about unprecedented solutions. They were both dreamers and doers. Few countries knew more about
16-20480
3/5
A/C.2/71/SR.25
the benefits of entrepreneurship than Israel, a tiny nation with few natural resources, difficult farming conditions and very little water. In barely six decades, his country had nevertheless been transformed from a barren desert into a hub of innovation, largely because of its people's motivation and persistence. Prosperity stemmed from empowerment of the people; social stability required engagement with every member of society, especially women and youth; and sustainability required investment in the future of the next generation.
13. It was important to create a supportive ecosystem for entrepreneurship, especially in developing countries. It was therefore lamentable that once again the Arab nations had called for a vote on the draft resolution. They had cast a vote not only against a United Nations resolution but also against their own people. Those Governments continued to put politics before people and pride before progress. Instead of fostering their future, they preferred to fuel hatred and division.
14. The adoption of the draft resolution was a first step. Every person should have the opportunity to turn dreams into reality and ideas into actions.
15. Mr. Morales Lopez (Colombia) said that the vote that had taken place had been a demonstration of the collaborative work done and of the importance attached to entrepreneurship and innovation as a fundamental means of achieving sustainable development.
16. Aware of the need to promote entrepreneurship, creativity and innovation in all countries, especially developing countries, and in order to move towards inclusive, prosperous sustainable development, Colombia had been a sponsor of the draft resolution and had voted in favour of it.
17. Once the draft resolution was adopted, attention
must turn to designing specific policies to incentivize economic growth based on cross-sectoral
entrepreneurship and public-private partnerships to drive sustainable development. Equitable progress by all economies would depend on enabling creative, innovative new companies to flourish and on access to new technologies that led to well-being and the best quality of life for all people.
18. In that context, the international community should implement innovative means of promoting the
development, transfer and diffusion of new technologies, establishing favourable conditions for developing countries within the framework of a balanced, efficient and effective international intellectual property regime as a key means of implementing sustainable development. International cooperation must be strengthened and should become an essential part of a renewed and truly transformative global partnership for development.
19. While Colombia had decided to join the consensus, it was nevertheless profoundly disappointed that the current text omitted language in paragraph 3 agreed to in informal consultations regarding favourable terms for technology transfer, including concessional and preferential terms, and the language of the agreements reached under the Addis Ababa Action Agenda of the Third International Conference on Financing for Development and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
20. That omission should not set a precedent for future resolutions or be taken as a signal of any change in the terms of the agreements reached on favourable, concessional and preferential technology transfer. The international community must not ignore the need for developing countries to have access to new technology in order to achieve progress towards sustainable development.
21. Colombia would continue striving to achieve progress, foster entrepreneurship and advance towards a more dynamic, diverse and inclusive economy that kept pace with worldwide technological progress. It hoped to receive the firm support of the international community in that endeavour, including through technology transfer.
22. Mr. Shawesh (Observer for the State of Palestine) said that the claim by the representative of the occupying Power about Israel transforming a desert into a State was preposterous. The “desert” of which the Israeli representative spoke had boasted airports, seaports, a Government, a currency, a banking and tax system, a postal service, newspapers, theatres, cinemas, schools, universities, hotels and railroads. The original name of the electric company that currently lit the home of the Israeli representative had been the Palestine Electric Company. That “desert” had exported wheat to Europe and sent a football team to tour Australia. To call Palestine a desert prior to the establishment of Israel flew in the face of the historical record and objective facts.
4/5
16-20480
A/C.2/71/SR.25
(e) Implementation of the United Nations
Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa
(continued) (A/C.2/71/L.10 and A/C.2/71/L.38)
Draft resolutions on the implementation of the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa (A/C.2/71/L.10 and A/C.2/71/L.38*)
23. The Chair invited the Committee to take action on draft resolution A/C.2/71/L.38*, submitted by Mr. D^az de la Guardia (Spain), Vice-Chair of the Committee, on the basis of informal consultations held on draft resolution A/C.2/71/L.10. The draft resolution contained no programme budget implications. Since the document had only been circulated that morning, he took it that the Committee wished to waive the relevant provision of rule 120 of the rules of procedure in order to consider the draft resolution at the current meeting.
24. It was so decided.
25. Ms. Sigurdardottir (Iceland), facilitator, introduced draft resolution A/C.2/71/L.38* and thanked the participating delegations and the secretariats of both the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification and the Second Committee for their efforts.
26. Ms. Herity (Secretary of the Committee) said that owing to an error in the final paragraph of draft resolution A/C.2/71/L.38, a corrected version had been issued. The last three words of paragraph 13 in the reissued draft resolution (A/C.2/71/L.38*) were “unless otherwise agreed”.
27. Draft resolution A/C.2/71/L.38* was adopted.
28. Draft resolution A/C.2/71/L.10 was withdrawn.
(j) Sustainable mountain development (continued) (A/C.2/71/L.18/Rev. 1)
Draft resolution on sustainable mountain development (A/C.2/71/L.18/Rev. 1)
29. The Chair invited the Committee to take action on draft resolution A/C.2/71/L.18/Rev.1, submitted by Ms. Fassio Canuto (Italy) and Mr. Seoane (Peru) on behalf of the sponsors. The draft resolution contained no programme budget implications. Since the document had
only been circulated that morning, he took it that the Committee wished to waive the relevant provision of rule 120 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly in order to proceed with action on the draft resolution.
30. It was so decided.
31. Mr. Seoane (Peru), Rapporteur of the Committee and co-facilitator, said that the draft resolution was important for the development of mountainous regions, and especially for mountain peoples who were often among the most vulnerable. The draft resolution reflected the principle of leaving no one behind contained in the 2030 Agenda. He expressed appreciation for the constructive support of all delegations, the Department of Economic and Social Affairs, the Secretariat of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, and the Secretariat of the Mountain Partnership. More than 50 countries were sponsoring the draft resolution and Bosnia and Herzegovina, Iceland, Israel, the Philippines, Poland and Suriname had joined the list of sponsors.
32. Ms. Fassio-Canuto (Italy), co-facilitator, thanked all delegations that had participated in the negotiations for their cooperative spirit, and all sponsors for recognizing the special character of mountain ecosystems, whose glaciers, forests, soils and biodiversity provided resources and benefits not only to people living in mountain regions but also large segments of the world's population. Mountain ecosystems were highly vulnerable to the negative impact of climate change and were therefore providers of early warnings that urgent action needed to be taken to prevent irreversible damage to livelihoods and people's well-being.
33. Draft resolution A/C.2/71/L.18/Rev.1 was adopted. The meeting rose at 10.55 a.m.
16-20480
5/5