United Nations
A/C.2/70/SR.37
General Assembly
Seventieth session
Official Records
Distr.: General 26 July 2016
Original: English
Second Committee Summary record of the 37th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Monday, 13 June 2016, at 11.50 a.m.
Chair: Mr. Logar (Slovenia)
Contents
Agenda item 5: Election of the officers of the Main Committees
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Control Unit (srcorrections@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
16-09836 (E)
in in ii 11rnwmv
A/C.2/70/SR.37
The meeting was called to order at 11.50 a.m.
Agenda item 5: Election of the officers of the Main Committees
1. The Chair expressed condolences to the Government and people of the United States in connection with the recent tragedy in Orlando.
2. In accordance with rule 99 (a) of the rules of procedure, the meeting had been convened for the purpose of electing the Chair and other members of the Bureau of the Committee for the seventy -first session of the General Assembly.
3. The nomination of Mr. Djani (Indonesia) for the office of Chair had been endorsed by the Group of Asia-Pacific States. In the absence of further nominations, and in accordance with rule 103 of the rules of procedure, he would take it that the Committee wished to elect Mr. Djani (Indonesia) Chair.
4. Mr. Djani (Indonesia) was elected Chair by acclamation.
5. Mr. Djani (Indonesia) expressed condolences to the families of the victims of the terrorist attack in Orlando and to the Government of the United States.
6. He looked forward to working closely with delegations and with officials from across the United Nations system to implement the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and called on all members to collaborate in their work.
7. The Chair said that the nominations of
Mr. Andambi (Kenya), Ms. Nipomici (Republic of Moldova) and Mr. D^az de la Guardia Beuno (Spain) for the three offices of Vice-Chair had been endorsed by the Group of African States, the Group of Eastern European States and the Group of Western European and Other States, respectively.
8. Mr. Andambi (Kenya), Ms. Nipomici (Republic of Moldova) and Mr. D^az de la Guardia Beuno (Spain) were elected Vice-Chairs by acclamation.
9. The Chair said that the nomination of
Mr. Seoane (Peru) for the office of Rapporteur had been endorsed by the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States.
10. Mr. Seoane (Peru) was elected Rapporteur by acclamation.
The meeting rose at 12.05 p.m.
2/2
16-09836