United Nations
A/C.2/72/SR.1
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
Official Records
Distr.: General 10 October 2017
Original: English
Second Committee Summary record of the 1st meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Monday, 25 September 2017, at 3 p.m.
Chair: Mr. Jurgenson (Estonia)
Contents
Election of the Bureau Statement by the Chair Organization of work
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Management Section (dms@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
17-16832 (E)
in i in in rnwmv
Please recycle
A/C.2/72/SR.1
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Election of the Bureau
1. The Chair said that the candidacy of Ms. Mele (Italy) for the office of Vice-Chair had been endorsed by the Group of Western European and Other States.
2. Ms. Mele (Italy) was elected Vice-Chair by acclamation.
Statement by the Chair
3. The Chair said that the list of items allocated to the Committee had been issued as document A/C.2/72/1, and informed the Committee how responsibility for the various agenda items would be divided among the members of the Bureau.
4. He drew attention to the guidance of the General Assembly regarding the work of the Main Committees set out in the report of the General Committee (A/72/250). Meetings would begin punctually at 10 a.m. and 3 p.m. If there were few or no speakers inscribed for a particular meeting, the meeting would be cancelled or shortened so that conference services could reallocated. In view of the limited time available, it was important for the Committee to maximize the use of its time. Delegations were reminded that the General Assembly had decided to continue its practice of waiving the requirement that at least one quarter of Committee members should be present in order to declare a meeting open and permit the debate to proceed.
5. The list of speakers for both the Committee's general debate and the agenda items allocated to it was open. Delegations were requested to inscribe their names on the list as soon as possible to enable the Committee to plan its work more efficiently. If a delegation was not in the room when its turn came, it would automatically be moved to the end of the list, unless it had made arrangements to change places with another delegation.
6. Recalling that the General Assembly had decided to maintain the current time limits of seven minutes for individual Member States and 10 minutes for delegations speaking on behalf of a group of States during the general debate (five minutes and seven minutes, respectively, during debates on individual agenda items), he urged speakers to confine themselves to the salient points of their statements and to provide copies of their statements to the conference officers for purposes of electronic circulation through PaperSmart. Introductions by Secretariat officials should be limited to 10 minutes and representatives of the Secretariat and
of agencies, funds and programmes should focus on selected issues of priority concern to them.
7. In accordance with previous decisions of the General Assembly and the Committee's established practice, explanations of vote would be limited to five minutes, delegations would be entitled to two rights of reply per agenda item, first of five and then of three minutes, and points of order would be limited to three minutes. He took it that the Committee wished to maintain those time limits.
8. It was so decided.
Organization of work (A/C.2/72/L.1)
9. The Chair invited the Committee to consider the draft programme of work as contained in document A/C.2/72/L.1 and drew attention to two minor corrections. Recalling the guidelines adopted by the General Assembly in its decision 65/530 on improving the working methods of the Committee, he said that the Bureau would keep multiple mandatory deadlines for the submission of draft resolutions, to which the Committee would need to adhere strictly. Requests for extensions made prior to the expiration of a deadline would be considered on a case-by-case basis, bearing it in mind that the Secretariat required a minimum of 48 hours to process and issue documents in all languages before their scheduled consideration.
10. Pursuant to General Assembly decision 65/530, draft resolutions should be concise, focused and actionoriented. Preambular paragraphs should be kept to a minimum and, where possible, references to the sources of the relevant language should be provided. The appointment of facilitators for informal “informal” consultations was nearly complete and facilitators were urged to convene consultations as soon as possible; delegations were urged to do their utmost to conclude negotiations in time in order for action on draft resolutions to be taken on the scheduled dates.
11. In line with its practice at previous sessions, the Committee would hold a joint meeting with the Economic and Social Council on 11 October 2017, entitled “The future of everything - Sustainable development in the age of rapid technological change”. The Bureau proposed the following three side events: “The future of work: Making decent work a reality”, “Science, technology and innovation for the Sustainable Development Goals: Harnessing inclusive innovation to leave no one behind” and “Towards a sustainable future for all women and girls: Combating poverty and promoting gender equality, a data and policy perspective”. Interpretation services for the
2/3
17-16832
A/C.2/72/SR.1
special events would be provided on an “as available” basis.
12. The general debate starting on 2 October would be preceded by a keynote address by Professor Arvind Panagariya, Professor of Economics and of Indian Political Economy at Columbia University, New York.
13. The target date for the conclusion of the Committee's work was 22 November, the last date that would allow time for the Committee's reports to be processed and issued in time for consideration by the General Assembly before its December recess. All draft resolutions with financial implications should be submitted to the Fifth Committee no later than 1 December.
14. He took it that the Committee wished to approve the organization of work as contained in document A/C.2/72/L.1, with minor corrections.
15. It was so decided.
16. The Chair said that he took it that the Committee wished to take note of document A/C.2/72/L.1/Add.1, on the status of documentation.
17. It was so decided.
18. The Chair recalled that, pursuant to General Assembly resolution 71/323 on revitalization of the work of the General Assembly, each Main Committee was requested to make proposals for the further biennialization, triennialization, clustering and elimination of agenda items. The resolution also requested the President of the General Assembly, through consultations with all Member States, to identify proposals aimed at addressing gaps and duplication in the agenda as they related to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Each Main Committee was requested to discuss its working methods at the beginning of every session and, in his capacity as Chair of the Committee, he was invited to brief the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Revitalization of the Work of the General Assembly on best practices and lessons learned with a view to improving working methods.
The meeting rose at 3.40 p.m.
17-16832
3/3