United Nations
A/C.2/71/SR.1
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
Official Records
Distr.: General 6 October 2016
Original: English
Second Committee Summary record of the 1st meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Wednesday, 28 September 2016, at 10 a.m.
Chair: Mr. Djani (Indonesia)
Contents
Organization of work
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Control Unit (srcorrections@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
16-16705 (E)
III III I III 705*
A/C.2/71/SR.1
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Organization of work
1. The Chair said that the list of items allocated to the Committee had been issued as document A/C.2/71/1. He drew attention to document A/C.2/71/L.1, on the organization of work, and reminded delegations of the guidelines adopted by the General Assembly in its decision 65/530. Almost all the facilitators of informal “informal” consultations had already been appointed, and he encouraged them to convene consultations as soon as possible.
2. Time had been set aside for side events linked to the Committee's agenda. The Bureau had proposed three such events which would focus on the role of public governance authorities and all stakeholders in the promotion of information and communications technologies for sustainable development; sustainable strategies for eradicating poverty through youth employment and entrepreneurship; and debt as mandated in paragraph 2 of General Assembly resolution 70/190. One joint meeting of the Economic and Social Council and the Committee would also be held.
3. The target date for the conclusion of the Committee's work was 23 November, the latest date that would allow sufficient time for the Committee's reports to be processed and issued for consideration by the General Assembly before the December recess.
4. Mr. Plasai (Thailand), speaking on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, said that the deadline for submitting draft proposals should be extended because of the need for many delegations to attend the United Nations Conference on Housing and Sustainable Urban Development (Habitat III) in Quito.
5. The Chair said that the comments of the previous speaker would be taken into account. He took it that the Committee wished to approve the organization of work contained in document A/C.2/71/L.1, on the understanding that further adjustments would be made if necessary.
6. It was so decided.
7. The Chair drew attention to document A/C.2/71/L.1/Add.1, which provided information on the status of documentation.
8. The Committee took note of document A/C. 2/71/L. 1/A dd. 1.
9. The Chair intended to consult with the President of the General Assembly and the President of the Economic and Social Council during the current session to exchange ideas and possible actions. Pursuant to General Assembly resolution 70/305 on revitalization of the work of the General Assembly, each Main Committee was requested to discuss its working methods at the beginning of every session. The resolution also invited him, in his capacity as Chair of the Second Committee, to brief the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Revitalization of the Work of the General Assembly on best practices and lessons learned with a view to improving working methods, as appropriate.
The meeting rose at 10.40 a.m.
2/2
16-16705