United Nations
A/C.2/72/SR.28
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
Official Records
Distr.: General 27 June 2018
Original: English
Second Committee
Summary record of the 28th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Tuesday, 5 June 2018, at 10 a.m.
Chair: Mr. Jurgenson (Estonia)
Contents
Agenda item 5: Election of the officers of the Main Committees
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Management Section (dms@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
18-09500 (E)
llll llllllllllIINIH
A/C.2/72/SR.28
The meeting was called to order at 12.05 p.m.
Agenda item 5: Election of the officers of the Main Committees
1. The Chair said that, in accordance with rule 99 (a) of the rules of procedure, the meeting had been convened for the purpose of electing the Chair and other members of the Bureau of the Committee for the seventy-third session of the General Assembly.
2. The nomination of Mr. Skinner-Klee (Guatemala) had been presented by his Government for the post of Chair of the Second Committee. In the absence of further nominations, and in accordance with rule 103 of the rules of procedure, he would take it that the Committee wished to elect Mr. Skinner-Klee (Guatemala) Chair.
3. Mr. Skinner-Klee (Guatemala) was elected Chair by acclamation.
4. Mr. Skinner-Klee (Guatemala) said that it was his mission to facilitate the work of the Committee with impartiality and full respect for the rights of all delegations. He would need the participation of all members to ensure an agile and efficient process as the Committee addressed its important agenda.
5. The Chair said that for the posts of Vice-Chair, Ms. Al Ateibi (United Arab Emirates) had been endorsed by the Group of Asia-Pacific States and Mr. Braquetti (Monaco) had been endorsed by the Group of Western European and Other States.
6. Ms. Al Ateibi (United Arab Emirates) and Mr. Braquetti (Monaco) were elected Vice-Chairs by acclamation.
7. The Chair said that the Group of Eastern European States had endorsed the candidature of Ms. Lepp (Estonia) for the post of Rapporteur.
8. Ms. Lepp (Estonia) was elected Rapporteur by acclamation.
The meeting rose at 12.10p.m.
2/2
18-09500