United Nations
A/c .4/68/SR.15
General Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
Official Records
Distr.: General 13 December 2013
Original: English
Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee)
Summary record (partial)* of the 15th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Monday, 28 October 2013, at 10 a.m.
Chair: Mr. Garcia Gonzalez (El Salvador)
Contents
Agenda item 53: Comprehensive review of the whole question of peacekeeping operations in all their aspects
* No summary record was prepared for the rest of the meeting.
This record is subject to correction. Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Control Unit (srcorrections@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
13-53252 (E)
llllllllllllllllllllllll
A/C.4/68/SR.15
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 53: Comprehensive review of the whole question of peacekeeping operations in all their aspects
1. Mr. Ladsous (Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations) said that peacekeeping, a flexible, evolving instrument with measurable consequences, remained one of the most effective mechanisms created by the international community to help countries make the often difficult transition from conflict to peace. Over the 65-year history of peacekeeping, it had been found that the probability of a given country successfully avoiding a relapse into conflict was doubled if a peacekeeping operation had been deployed. Peacekeeping was a collective effort, depending on effective partnership among diverse Member States, the United Nations system and, increasingly, regional organizations, and, to ensure sustainability, with host Governments.
2. Looking to the year ahead, he saw three factors that might alter the landscape for United Nations peacekeeping. The first was the changing nature of conflict. Peacekeepers now had to be trained and equipped to operate effectively and safely in the face of unconventional threats alongside a parallel military force engaged in targeted counter-terrorism, as in Mali. The potential engagement in the Central African Republic might also require them to adapt, drawing on experience in Afghanistan, Iraq, Somalia and elsewhere.
3. Secondly, engagement with regional organizations continued to deepen and diversify, particularly in Africa. From Chad to Mali to Darfur to Somalia, the roles of the United Nations and regional partners had continued to evolve to meet new challenges. With the African Union, the European Union and other regional partners, there was a need for more flexible arrangements, especially in hybrid operations, and a greater strategic engagement at the global level, to draw on the full array of capabilities available and to reach collective peace and security goals.
4. Thirdly, the financial pressures on many Member States required the Organization to optimize the use of resources, but peacekeeping delivered a great deal efficiently and cost-effectively, and the investment was a sound one. The Department of Peacekeeping
Operations and the Department of Field Support made periodic reviews of evolving mission and staffing requirements, and there were multiple safeguards in place to ensure strong and transparent oversight of resources.
5. Currently, 114,000 personnel were serving in the fifteen peacekeeping operations and one political mission supported by the Department of Peacekeeping Operations. He wished to express his deep appreciation to the countries contributing military and police personnel.
6. Reviewing the operations in Africa, he said that in Mali, gaps in required enabling capacities, particularly aviation assets, had slowed the deployment of the new United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali (MINUSMA) and its ability to support government efforts to restore authority, protect civilians and foster national reconciliation in all designated regions. The African Union/United Nations Hybrid operation in Darfur (UNAMID) continued to work to protect civilians and support humanitarian operations under difficult conditions. The United Nations Mission in the Republic of South Sudan (UNMISS) had been hampered by violent local clashes in the state of Jonglei and equipment shortfalls, whereas the United Nations Interim Security Force for Abyei (UNISFA) had contributed to the stabilization of that disputed area and helped with border verification. In West Africa, the United Nations Operation in Cote d'Ivoire (UNOCI) had improved the political environment, advanced access to rights and improved the security environment ahead of the national elections in 2015. In Liberia, the United Nations Mission in Liberia (UNMIL) continued to support the political process, constitutional reform, and peace consolidation while its own military drawdown proceeded, while the Department of Peacekeeping Operations developed options for emergency security support for UNMIL once it reached its residual strength in 2015. The United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUSCO) was still working to improve governance and human rights monitoring, while addressing the deeply entrenched violence in the eastern Congo, where the Intervention Brigade, supported by three countries from the region, was making inroads against the longstanding challenge of armed groups. Initial signs had been good, and the Government had urgently called for
2/14
13-53252
A/C.4/68/SR.15
strengthening the Brigade's operational capacity. MONUSCO was also working closely with the United Nations, various regional organizations and the United States to help implement the Peace, Security and Cooperation Framework.
7. In the Middle East, the United Nations Disengagement Observer Force (UNDOF) maintained its operations on the Israel-Syria border under intensified security conditions, while the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL) continued to work closely with the parties to preserve the prevailing cautious calm in southern Lebanon. There had also been the swift deployment and liquidation of the United Nations Supervision Mission in Syria (UNSMIS). In the Caribbean, the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti (MINUSTAH) continued to work with the Government there to ensure stability and a constructive political dialogue, strengthen judicial, police and prison institutions, and move towards other critical mission benchmarks. In Asia, the United Nations Integrated Mission in Timor-Leste (UNMIT) had completed its mandate on 31 December 2012, and a joint review by the Department and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) had yielded a number of valuable lessons for other mission transitions and for the continuing advancement of peace in Timor-Leste.
8. He saw several priorities for the Department of Peacekeeping Operations in the year ahead. The first was the vital issue of ensuring adequate capabilities and capacities, which required a collective effort by missions, Member States and the Secretariat. The Department would soon be giving Member States a brief overview of the key military and police capability requirements they would be asked to provide, including force enablers such as helicopters for transport, military operations and medical evacuation, as well as armoured personnel carriers, night vision equipment, and appropriate command and control for information operations and forward deployments. Female police officers and units remained in short supply. So too did language capacity among police personnel, especially those deployed to French-speaking areas. No less than the military, United Nations police officers required proper pre-deployment training, appropriate equipment and improved rapid-deployment capacity. Modern technology held much promise for enhancing mission effectiveness. Unmanned aerial systems, for instance, which could improve information gathering and force
protection, were scheduled to be operational in the Congo by spring 2014.
9. A second priority was to develop common United Nations standards, particularly for new contributors to peacekeeping. Soon, and with Member State input, work would begin on new manuals for 11 critical military areas, to provide reference guides for planning and conducting operations. In addition, a Force Headquarters Manual was being developed and, after broad consultation, policy guidelines on United Nations policing were nearing completion, and would be a central pillar of a new multi-year strategy on the subject.
10. Rapid deployment and force generation in start-up missions remained another area to be strengthened quickly. Six months after authorization, for example, MINUSMA still lacked five essential formations as well as critical helicopter capabilities. Member States and the Secretariat must devise a way to make such assets available more rapidly. Missions faced similar challenges when they required rapid reinforcement for unanticipated operational or security needs: such standby or rapid response capabilities must also be given priority, perhaps with a reliance on the growing capacities of regional partners, or expanded inter-mission coordination arrangements.
11. Enhancing capabilities had important implications for readiness and training. New pre-deployment training standards and materials continued to be developed in cooperation with Member States. The core pre-deployment training material would be revised and updated in 2014, but training requirements continued to grow. In the coming months, both his Department and the Department of Field Support would examine how they could work together with Member States to make the best use of the reservoir of knowledge and training capacity available globally. The implementation of General Assembly resolution 67/261 on reimbursement to troopcontributing countries might provide opportunities to address some of those challenges. The Department would also welcome contributions from Member States to background papers on new and continuing capability requirements, for consideration by the Working Group on Reimbursement of Contingent-Owned Equipment due to start meeting in January 2014.
12. The Department hoped to announce soon the appointment of the first Director for Peacekeeping
13-53252
3/14
A/C.4/68/SR.15
Strategic Partnerships, who would help identify gaps that had an impact on delivery, make recommendations on systemic issues and ensure regular dialogue with force commanders, police advisors and the Member States.
13. On the pressing issue of protection of civilians, nine of the current peacekeeping operations, representing some 95 per cent of all deployed personnel, had a protection of civilians mandate. Seven missions now had mission-specific protection strategies developed in close consultation with the host States, communities and partners, and an eighth would soon have one. Coordination had improved with the establishment of the Protection of Civilians Coordination Unit at Headquarters and the progressive deployment of dedicated protection advisers in missions. Women's protection advisors were also being recruited for five missions, and the Department was working to improve early-warning and rapid-reaction procedures, drawing upon experience in MONUSCO, UNMISS and elsewhere. Mission-specific training materials on protection of civilians had been prepared, and since April 2011, more than 500 military officers had been trained in responding to conflict-related sexual violence, and 9,000 United Nations police officers in preventing and investigating it. The Department had also worked with Member States to complete pre-deployment training materials on child protection,.
14. Early peacebuilding was another urgent concern. Missions must begin to build strong national capacities, particularly in the rule of law and in security institutions, because they served as the foundation for peacebuilding and longer-term development, enabling the missions eventually to withdraw. Also, in 2013 the Security Council had directed two missions, MONUSCO and UNOCI, to identify civilian tasks that could be handed over either to the United Nations country team, if it was equipped to take them on, or to national authorities, as appropriate; and UNMIL had been asked to identify the comparative advantages of continuing to perform such tasks or transferring them so that the peacekeeping mission could focus on its core tasks. In general, civilians in multidimensional peacekeeping played a critical advisory and bridging role. Many, such as civil affairs officers, disarmament, demobilization and reintegration officers and human rights officers, did unique outreach and monitoring in remote regions.
15. In many cases, the test of success would ultimately be how well the United Nations had helped the national institutions to extend government authority and sustain peace. Developing national institutions was complex and required an understanding that the political, security, and economic drivers of conflict were closely linked. Peacekeeping operations and development partners must address that challenge collectively. Since its designation in 2012, the global focal point for the rule of law sector (police, justice and corrections), administered by his Department together with UNDP, had supported joint assessments in six countries, leading to joint rule of law and justice projects, jointly designed mission plans, deployment of specialized personnel and advice on funding streams. The three-year work plan for the global focal point would include an independent review to evaluate its impact.
16. The Security Council and host governments were increasingly recognizing disarmament, demobilization and reintegration and security sector reform as a key priority for successful peacebuilding. The Central African Republic showed the tremendous human and other costs that followed when those processes were not fully implemented and when sustainable jobs and development did not accompany them. The work of the Mine Action Service took on new relevance as missions deployed into environments with unconventional threats, such as improvised explosive devices. The Service, in working to build national capacities, had helped the missions in the Congo and Mali, for example, to build and hand over facilities for the storage and disposal of ordnance. Efforts to build national capacity must begin from the early stages and carry through into transition planning. The United Nations had approved a new policy on transitions to improve coordination with national authorities and development partners, including the United Nations country team.
17. The Department of Peacekeeping Operations, in cooperation with other departments, was carrying out the Secretary-General's policy on human rights screening of United Nations personnel, routinely in the case of senior-level posts. As the policy placed the primary onus on Governments to screen the personnel they nominated and contributed, he looked forward to the continued cooperation of Member States in that regard.
4/14
13-53252
A/C.4/68/SR.15
18. The Secretariat and Member States would need to face together the very great demands that were placed on United Nations peacekeeping, and to strengthen and solidify a vital instrument of international peace and security. Peacekeeping operations remained essentially a political tool that permitted them, within the context of their mandates, to engage deeply with all parties to lay the foundation for a lasting peace. Their success was fundamentally linked to the political support that the Member States had given through their diplomatic engagement, financial assistance and contribution of personnel. Paying tribute to the personnel serving around the world, he noted that in 2013, to date, 79 men and women had died while serving in peacekeeping missions, far from home and their loved ones. Deep appreciation was due for their service and their sacrifice.
19. Ms. Haq (Under-Secretary-General for Field Support), joining Under-Secretary-General Ladsous in remembering the 79 peacekeepers who had so tragically lost their lives in the past year, said that since her appointment, she had devoted considerable time to various reforms undertaken by her Department, the Department for Peacekeeping Operations and the Organization as a whole. It was her firm belief that it was incumbent upon all those involved to improve mission support, to refine the systems that shaped the parameters of life at mission level, and to maximize both productivity and efficiency in discharging mandates. All the reform efforts aimed to enhance the quality, speed and cost-effectiveness of support for United Nations peacekeepers, and all derived from shared goals and the conviction that peace was worth a risk. The past year had brought an uninterrupted sequence of new challenges and operational demands. New missions had been set up in complex operating environments. Existing operations had undergone profound, historic change. Over the past 18 months, her Department had supported six newly authorized missions, including three peacekeeping operations in Abyei, Syria and Mali and three political missions in Libya, Somalia and the Great Lakes. Most recently, it had worked closely with the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) in the establishment of the joint mission in Syria. To discuss MINUSMA in Mali, UNSOM in Somalia, and the OPCW-UN Joint Mission in Syria all in the same breath was to underscore the extraordinary complexity of the security challenges being addressed by the United Nations.
20. Of course, partnership was fundamental. Without Member States convening in a spirit of genuine partnership, United Nations peacekeeping was deprived of the critical lifeblood that allowed it to take on new challenges on the basis of a shared vision. Partnership involved all actors: not only contributing countries, the Security Council and the Secretariat, but national authorities as well, and also the regional organizations whose collaboration, especially extensive in the case of the African Union, allowed the international community to make progress in bringing peace to war-torn countries.
21. The overall United Nations peacekeeping budget for 2013-2014 stood at approximately 7.5 billion dollars; per capita costs for peacekeeping were expected to be more than 15 per cent lower than in 2008-2009 when measured in terms of the number of deployed uniformed personnel, and only the authorization of new missions during the past year had prevented an overall budget reduction of 5 per cent. While responsible stewardship of limited resources was important, the overarching priority must be to ensure safe and secure conditions for peacekeeping personnel. As operations deployed to more volatile environments, the costs associated with faster paced operations and enhanced safety and security measures were likely to rise.
22. The forthcoming report of the Secretary-General on the global field support strategy, now in its fourth year, would set out the vision for each of the four pillars of the strategy: shared services; supply chain management and modularization; human resources; and finance. The Regional Service Centre in Entebbe had continued to support operations in East Africa, particularly through the Transportation and Movements Integrated Control Centre. In the coming year, consolidating the success so far, the plan was to identify the most appropriate arrangements for extending the benefits of shared services to all peacekeeping missions; and to ensure that, by the end of the global field support strategy implementation period, all planning and deployment procedures for new missions drew explicitly on the tools of that strategy as well as on other identified best practices.
23. In addition to the global field support strategy, her Department anticipated benefits from the institution of the International Public Sector Accounting Standards. Also, the imminent inclusion of all peacekeeping missions in the enterprise resource
13-53252
5/14
A/C.4/68/SR.15
planning project, Umoja would be a major milestone in the efforts to streamline and improve the quality of support to and within missions. A key challenge was to secure enabling capacities in the field. It was evident that the planning of peacekeeping missions must go hand in hand with the identification and provision of enablers and force multipliers. On too many occasions during the past year, optimistic timetables for the start-up of sensitive missions in difficult operating environments had run up against the stark reality that the necessary enablers were simply not available in time. Air assets were especially critical, together with engineering teams to build and maintain runways.
24. Medical support in the field also remained crucial. Significant revisions, after comments from many Member States, had been made to the Medical Support Manual, which served as the comprehensive framework for both medical field personnel and troopand police-contributing countries. Death and disability claims continued to be given priority in view of the risks that peacekeeping personnel assumed upon deployment. The Department regularly sought to improve its handling of cases, and the revision of medical standards had been a proactive measure.
25. Earlier that month the Security Council had adopted resolution 2122 (2013) to strengthen women's participation in all aspects of conflict prevention and response. There were qualified women professionals in all countries who were well suited to serve as special representatives of the Secretary-General and in other senior-level posts. She encouraged Member States to actively seek and nominate qualified women candidates. Geographic diversity also enriched the work of the United Nations, and both Departments sought to improve the representation of staff from troop- and police-contributing countries, as called for in General Assembly resolution 67/287.
26. Another priority was the development of the capacity of national staff serving in peacekeeping missions. To that end, her Department was exploring ways of drawing and building on their skills and knowledge, and was conducting civilian staffing reviews to look for opportunities for transferring responsibilities for mission tasks to locally recruited staff. It had recently completed staffing reviews in UNAMID, UNIFIL and UNOCI.
27. The United Nations must lead by example, and accountability must accompany responsibility and
authority. In the past two years, the United Nations had introduced policies that set non-negotiable thresholds of personal conduct for those who worked in the United Nations family and those supported by it. The human rights due diligence policy and the policy on human rights screening of United Nations personnel were distinct yet complementary and served as the cornerstone of the Organization's capacity to adhere to its founding principles of observance and promotion of human rights.
28. Significant steps had been taken to align Department practices with the policy on human rights screening of personnel, complementing the primary responsibility of Member States to screen individual, units and other formations deployed on peacekeeping missions and to share known information on seniorlevel candidates' human rights backgrounds. The Department remained fully committed to preventing and addressing misconduct by personnel deployed in field operations, with zero tolerance for sexual misconduct and in full accordance with the enhanced programme of action introduced by the SecretaryGeneral in his most recent report on special measures for protection from sexual exploitation and abuse (A/67/766). She and the Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations had recently issued joint statements to uniformed and non-uniformed personnel setting out the elements of the programme of action, and emphasizing organizational and personal accountability. The cooperation of Member States was indispensable to ensure that those who had committed sexual exploitation, abuse and other offences were appropriately sanctioned, including by national criminal prosecution. By remaining vigilant in that regard, the United Nations and Member States were demonstrating genuine commitment to protecting and assisting host populations.
29. Vigilance was also a prerequisite for better management of the environmental impact of peacekeeping. For too long, peacekeeping operations had not attached sufficient importance to minimizing their environmental footprint. Today, technologies were such that operations could lessen their effect on the environment while also reducing cost. For example, 15 per cent of the energy requirement of the mission in South Lebanon was now produced by solar power. The Department had also introduced waste water treatment and recycling projects in nine missions, improving
6/14
13-53252
A/C.4/68/SR.15
environmental health and significantly reducing water exploitation.
30. Turning to ongoing processes led by Member States, she recalled that General Assembly resolution 67/261 had included recommendations of the Senior Advisory Group on rates of reimbursement to troopcontributing countries. At the core of the reimbursement framework was a new approach to calculating the actual costs incurred by troop- and police-contributing countries when they put a vital national resource at the service of United Nations peacekeeping. The General Assembly needed detailed and comprehensive cost information in order to establish the rate of reimbursement. The Department was now making a revised survey of personnel costs based on a representative sample of ten troop- and police-contributing countries. It was a complex and challenging undertaking but the response so far encouraged optimism that the process would deliver more reliable data on actual costs incurred and investments made by contributing countries. In addition, resolution 67/261 had approved a number of other changes to the reimbursement regime, including the introduction of two potential premium payments for enabling capacity and for units operating without caveats and performing well in circumstances of exceptional risk. The Department was developing detailed proposals on how those premiums would be awarded and would report on them to the General Assembly in the spring of 2014.
31. In preparation for the January 2014 session of the Working Group on Reimbursement of ContingentOwned Equipment, Member States as well as the two Departments had prepared issues papers providing the Working Group with the latest information on the evolving operational requirements of field missions. The convergence in 2014 of the Working Group deliberations and the continuing implementation of the Senior Advisory Group recommendations offered a unique opportunity to institute long-overdue improvements in the United Nations compensatory system, making fairness, transparency, and efficiency more centralized features of reimbursement for Member State contributions to United Nations peacekeeping.
32. When the peacekeeping partnership was provided with the necessary resources to deliver in the field, when it was empowered by the contributing Member States to be flexible and responsive, and when it was
energized by the political will to respond quickly, United Nations peacekeeping had proved to be a powerful resource for conflict management and peace consolidation.
33. The Chair said that the meeting would suspend for an informal dialogue between Member States and the Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations and the Under-Secretary-General for Field Support.
The discussion covered in the summary record was suspended at 11.05 a.m. and resumed at 12.10p.m.
34. Mr. Selim (Egypt), speaking on behalf of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, said that the role of troop-contributing countries in the overall process of peacekeeping was a top priority for the Movement. Those countries must participate fully in policy formulation and decision-making, if United Nations peacekeeping was to be effective. Moreover, the troopcontributing countries could no longer bear the burden of subsidizing United Nations peacekeeping operations.
35. United Nations peacekeeping was at a crucial juncture as a result of the growing demand for new missions and the increasing complexity of mandates that went beyond political and military responsibilities and exceeded their capacities. The continuous expansion of peacekeeping operations required the United Nations to improve its capacity to assess conflict situations, to plan effectively on the basis of accurate information, and to respond rapidly to emergencies in keeping with the Charter of the United Nations. Peacekeeping should not be used as an alternative to addressing the root causes of a conflict or as a way of managing a conflict. Rather, it should be guided by a coherent vision to be realized by political, social and economic means, aimed at ensuring a smooth transition to lasting peace, security and sustainable development.
36. Policies and strategies had to be developed at the intergovernmental level, in conjunction with stronger development, planning and oversight capacities, and guaranteed resources for discharging peacekeeping mandates effectively. The Non-Aligned Movement was firmly committed to supporting any action that made peacekeeping operations more effective. However, it was important for the Secretariat to put into effect only ideas, approaches and policies that had been adopted by Member States collectively. The Special Committee
13-53252
7/14
A/C.4/68/SR.15
on Peacekeeping Operations was the sole body in charge of policymaking in peacekeeping.
37. It was essential to give peacekeeping missions all the resources they needed to carry out their tasks. Missions should operate, moreover, with full respect for the laws and regulations of the host country. It was also necessary to avoid changing the mandated tasks of peacekeeping missions without prior consultation with the troop contributors and the mission commanders in the field.
38. Another requirement was for the Security Council to draft clear and achievable mandates, after an objective assessment, and after ensuring that the mandates had the necessary political support and resources. Integrated planning and a consistent approach were key to success on the ground, as was effective triangular cooperation between troopcontributing countries, the Secretariat and the Security Council. The unjustified expansion of a mission's authority to use force could easily blur the line between peacekeeping and peace enforcement and compromise the mission's impartiality. It would, moreover, require consultation with Member States on ways of guaranteeing additional protection for the peacekeepers' safety
39. Also, more attention should be paid to the exit strategy. Peacekeeping and peacebuilding should be more integrated, so that peacekeeping was accompanied by economic recovery efforts and capacity building on the basis of national ownership. The Peacebuilding Commission and the Peacebuilding Fund had a significant role to play in that regard. The objective should not be peacekeeping cost-cutting, but rather settling the conflict and enhancing the State's potential to avoid a relapse into conflict.
40. Protection of civilians, where mandated, had to support national efforts since the primary responsibility lay with States to protect their civilians. Protection should not be used as a pretext for military intervention by the United Nations in conflicts. Also, the difficulty of providing troops and equipment for military operations to carry out that extraordinarily difficult task should be given particular attention, as should the potential legal difficulties arising from the characterization of civilians in armed conflicts as combatants. In addition, in the light of the growing role and responsibilities of police personnel in peacekeeping operations, care should be taken to avoid
duplication of tasks between the military and the police components.
41. The Non-Aligned Movement firmly believed that the primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security lay with the United Nations and that the role of regional arrangements should be in accordance with Chapter VIII of the Charter. At the same time, the Movement called for stronger United Nations support for the African Union peacekeeping operations by guaranteeing them predictable and sustainable funding.
42. There should be extensive consultations on the implementation of the global field support strategy, in order to ensure consensus on the logistical and administrative support for peacekeeping operations. The anticipated progress in the areas of modularization, human resources management, procurement and service centres ought to provide peacekeeping missions with high-quality field support service.
43. The Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations was the only body entitled to review United Nations peacekeeping operations in all their aspects, yet it was a matter of deep concern that, as had been evident from the proceedings of its previous session, its members needed more political will to work effectively and achieve the desired goals of the United Nations and the troop contributors. Having the Special Committee adopt a report at the close of its coming session, preferably by consensus, remained a top priority for the Non-Aligned Movement. Also, while the Senior Advisory Group on troop costs was performing a welcome task, it was very important for it to complete its work in a timely manner, so as to establish a system for periodic review of rates of reimbursement to troop-contributing countries.
44. The members of the Non-Aligned Movement, which comprised most if not all the countries that contributed the highest number of peacekeeping personnel, continued to expand their contributions of military and police personnel and civilian experts to missions, demonstrating their clear commitment to the maintenance of international peace and security.
45. Tribute was due to the men and women who were performing peacekeeping activities, and in particular to those peacekeepers who had lost their lives in the field.
8/14
13-53252
A/C.4/68/SR.15
46. Ms. Sanchez Rodriguez (Cuba), speaking on behalf of the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States (CELAC), said that the Community considered that a thorough and systematic analysis was needed to improve the effectiveness of peacekeeping operations and to maintain the credibility of the United Nations. United Nations peacekeeping held a central place in the maintenance of international peace and security and had proved to be one of the Organization's most efficient tools for helping countries make the difficult journey from conflict to peace.
47. In addition, it should be emphasized that when establishing any peacekeeping operation or extending any mission mandate, the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations should be strictly observed, especially respect for the sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence of States and non-interference in their internal affairs. The guiding principles of peacekeeping operations remained consent of the parties, use of force only in self-defence or in defence of the mandate, and impartiality.
48. To be truly effective, peacekeeping operations required, from the start, political support, sufficient resources and clearly defined and feasible mandates. A clear exit strategy even before the approval and deployment of any mission was indispensable, and the timetable for the transition and withdrawal of the mission depended on an objective and progressive assessment of whether the national capacities of the host State were developed enough to allow for a sustainable transition and ultimately a long-term sustainable development strategy.
49. CELAC, stressing once again the importance of the Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations as the sole and irreplaceable intergovernmental body authorized to make a comprehensive review of the whole question of United Nations peacekeeping operations in all their aspects, reiterated its strong commitment to its revitalization. It was very regrettable that the Special Committee had been unable to reach agreement on the draft recommendations of the Working Group of the Whole, and it was to be hoped that at its coming session the stalemate could be broken by the group of friends of the Chair along the lines indicated in the Special Committee's latest report (A/67/19, para. 13). The CELAC member countries would make every effort to ensure that the Special Committee's reports continued to be a relevant,
analytical and substantive tool for strengthening the global peacekeeping partnership.
50. That was all the more important in view of recent exceptional developments like the authorization of offensive operations under MONUSCO. The effect such a mandate could have on future United Nations operations needed to be carefully calculated, in terms of basic peacekeeping principles, the safety and security of peacekeepers and protection of civilians. CELAC supported the growing interaction of the Special Committee with the Security Council, the Peacebuilding Commission, the Fifth Committee, the Department of Peacekeeping Operations and the Department of Field Support; and believed it should be expanded to other bodies like the Department of Political Affairs.
51. CELAC had asked the Security Council to continue to meet privately with troop- and policecontributing countries prior to holding its own consultations. The Council should take into account their views on renewal of mission mandates, recognizing their right to participate in the formulation of policies and the taking of decisions on matters such as mission deployment, the transition and other major challenges in the course of an operation.
52. Considering the increasing number and complexity of special political missions, particularly those with a field presence, and their relationship to peacekeeping operations, CELAC looked forward to discussing the report of the Secretary-General on the matter, with a view to making special political missions more accountable and efficient.
53. The highest level of ethical conduct was to be expected of peacekeeping personnel, and the CELAC member countries were deeply committed to the United Nations zero tolerance policy on sexual exploitation and abuse, favouring prompt investigation of all acts of misconduct and full accountability, in accordance with due process and any relevant memorandums of understanding. The Community welcomed the systematic steps taken to eliminate and prevent misconduct.
54. Given the vital role that women played in conflict prevention and resolution, their full participation in peacekeeping and in promoting peace and security should be encouraged. Also, there could not be sustainable peace without efforts to fight poverty, hunger and inequality. For that reason, there was a
13-53252
9/14
A/C.4/68/SR.15
need for better coordination between peacekeeping operations and the United Nations peacebuilding architecture, and both should work closely with national authorities. It was important that peacebuilding tasks, especially early peacebuilding, should be properly included in peacekeeping mandates, since they constituted a critical pillar of mission success, not only helping missions to engage with the local population but also serving as a key tool in conflict prevention. Because the long-term sustainability of the peacekeeping system depended on ensuring that countries wishing to contribute to missions had the capacity to do so, reimbursements must be made in an efficient and timely manner.
55. CELAC reaffirmed its solidarity with the Government and people of Haiti and recognized the importance of the international efforts to help the country while respecting its national priorities and sovereignty. CELAC member countries had contributed the largest number of military and police personnel to MINUSTAH, as well as supporting Haiti by providing technical cooperation and assistance through bilateral, regional and subregional channels and the United Nations system. MINUSTAH projects to strengthen Haitian institutions and reduce community violence had been crucial, and must continue to be supported. CELAC and the international community had to make a long-term commitment to Haiti until it was on its way to stability, peace and sustainable development.
56. All United Nations peacekeepers deserved gratitude for their sacrifices and what they had done to bring about a safer world.
57. Mr. Sabyeroop (Thailand), speaking on behalf of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), expressed its member States' condolences to the families of the more than 70 peacekeepers who had died in 2013 alone, and of the many more who had been injured in the course of their dangerous service. ASEAN condemned, in the strongest terms, all acts of violence against United Nations peacekeepers, particularly the abduction of Philippine peacekeepers in the Golan Heights earlier in 2013. Peacekeeping missions must be given sufficient capabilities and resources to ensure the safety of their personnel, and all parties to conflicts must respect their protected status under international law.
58. Given the indispensable role of the Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations in reviewing
all aspects of peacekeeping and providing overall policy guidance, there was general disappointment and concern over the Special Committee's current deadlock on procedural matters. It had lost an opportunity at the sixty-seventh session to help develop constructive policies on peacekeeping operations that had an impact on the lives and well-being of peacekeepers, and that were part of its mandate. ASEAN called for an immediate meeting of the group of friends of the Chair established by the Fourth Committee to discuss the Special Committee's working methods, and stood ready to participate in the group to resolve the pending issues.
59. Protection of civilians had become a crucial component of peacekeeping. The Security Council had authorized a protection of civilians mandate in a number of peacekeeping missions, with a focus on women and children and on a response to sexual violence. In order to ensure exemplary ethical conduct on the part of peacekeeping personnel, they needed to be made aware of international law and different local cultures. It was also important that the United Nations commitment to zero tolerance for sexual abuse be fully enforced at all levels.
60. The effectiveness of peacekeeping missions and the safety of peacekeepers were always central concerns. It was the policy to use modern technologies on a case-by-case basis, particularly in MONUSCO, but it should be emphasized that their use should always comply with the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and fundamental principles of peacekeeping.
61. ASEAN had been following developments closely, in particular the shift in mandates of newly authorized peacekeeping missions from peacekeeping to peace enforcement. For example, the Intervention Brigade within MONUSCO, as authorized by Security Council resolution 2098 (2013), aimed to neutralize the threat from armed groups, potentially enabling better protection of civilians. However, such developments had raised concerns about their consistency with the basic principles of peacekeeping. Regular monitoring and reviews must be put in place to provide the Special Committee with sufficient information on which to base its future policy-making on the matter.
62. Close coordination among all stakeholders, particularly the host Government, was crucial for the success of peacekeeping missions. ASEAN therefore
10/14
13-53252
A/C.4/68/SR.15
supported the Security Council's practice of holding regular meetings with the troop- and policecontributing countries, and urged that they be included in the dialogue at every stage of peacekeeping operations, especially while mandates were being drafted and reviewed.
63. Moreover, it was a matter of importance to ensure that the three principles of United Nations peacekeeping, namely, consent of the parties, impartiality, and non-use of force except in selfdefence and defence of the mandate, remained the basic tenets of all peacekeeping operations.
64. ASEAN highlighted the need for better integration of peacekeeping and peacebuilding. Often regarded as early peacebuilders, it was important that peacekeepers should have specific training in civilian capacities and institution-building in order to ensure a successful transition from conflict to sustainable peace. Post-conflict development must be based on engagement with host countries, creating a sense of national ownership. The Peacebuilding Commission, and South-South and triangular cooperation, played essential roles in developing national capacity and mobilizing resources for institution-building.
65. Currently, almost 4,000 troops and police officers from ASEAN Member States were serving in various peacekeeping missions around the world, a testament to the Association's commitment to the cause of international peace and security. In addition, peacekeeping was one of the important elements of the ASEAN Political-Security Community. Its member States were working on the establishment of an ASEAN Peacekeeping Centres Network to enhance coordination among their national peacekeeping authorities. As part of the efforts to promote confidence-building, conflict prevention and peaceful resolution of disputes, ASEAN also attached great importance to cooperation with dialogue partners through two forums for discussions among peacekeeping professionals, the ASEAN Regional Forum and the ASEAN Defence Ministers Meeting Plus.
66. Speaking in his national capacity, he added that since the inception of United Nations peacekeeping operations, Thai military and police personnel, men as well as women, had joined more than 20 missions around the world, and were currently serving in five. Thailand continued to look for opportunities to
increase its role and presence in United Nations peacekeeping operations, in particular by contributing specialized troops such as army engineers, medical units and female officer units.
67. In Thailand's approach, peacekeeping was tied to security, human rights and development, and must respect local cultures and beliefs. The assistance of peacekeepers in community development in Timor-Leste, Haiti and Darfur by sharing best practices in agriculture, health care and water resource management with local villages and thus improving people's well-being, had been welcomed as a safeguard against a relapse into conflict. Thailand strongly believed that a greater presence of female peacekeepers would significantly benefit existing peacekeeping missions, particularly where violence against women and children and their exploitation were prevalent; and its goal was to increase the number of female police officers in its own contingents.
68. Like the other ASEAN member States, Thailand was committed to supporting the cause of peacekeeping. They would continue to adapt and strengthen their peacekeeping roles and capacities to match current developments and requirements.
69. Mr. McLay (New Zealand), speaking also on behalf of Australia and Canada, said that as peacekeeping mandates became more complex, Member States had a critical role in invigorating the partnership among all stakeholders, given the need for a strong unity of purpose, a multidimensional approach and a coherent post-conflict strategy. The important role of the Secretariat in that partnership was to facilitate dialogue and chart a strategic direction for peacekeeping.
70. Regional and subregional organizations were critically important in post-conflict peacebuilding and recovery, and they should work more closely with the various United Nations agencies. Consistent standards, supported by mechanisms ensuring adherence to them, were essential to planning and generating resources for peacekeeping. In that regard, it would be very valuable to develop further manuals of military capability standards, continuing to engage troop and police contributors in the process. The completion of an operational readiness assurance framework and the recent establishment of the Office of Peacekeeping Strategic Partnerships were welcome developments.
13-53252
11/14
A/C.4/68/SR.15
71. Training was also a critical component. The recently completed training needs assessment had laid the groundwork for better development and delivery of critically important training. Efforts to further develop the global training architecture for military, police and civilian personnel should draw on the comparative expertise of different training organizations.
72. United Nations peacekeepers were, more than ever before, becoming targets in the calculus of insurrection, insurgency and terrorism. The security of United Nations personnel was an important consideration and must continue to be addressed as a priority. As the proliferation of weapons also affected the ability of peacekeepers to provide security for themselves and for civilians, they must be assisted in tracking illicit weapons flows and enforcing arms embargoes. United Nations operations were deployed into some of the world's harshest environments, but shortfalls in equipment and critical enablers like helicopters continued to hamper their mobility and their ability to fulfil their mandates. The procedures for the deployment of military helicopters in missions had to be reviewed and improved. Also, more opportunities should be found to employ modern technologies in peacekeeping missions. Unarmed aerial vehicles, for example, raised situational awareness, deterred action by armed groups and enhanced the security of personnel. Their deployment by MONUSCO was welcome, and such technologies might well be used in other peacekeeping operations.
73. Stakeholders must continue to work collectively to strengthen operational capacity by finding innovative approaches to managing the available resources. Efforts were already being made to follow the useful recommendations of the Senior Advisory Group on troop costs, and there should also be further examination of mechanisms to improve the ability of the United Nations to start or reconfigure missions more rapidly.
74. Protection of civilians remained central to the credibility and overall effectiveness of peacekeeping missions. Over the past few years, good tactical-level training materials had been developed which had better prepared peacekeepers in that area, and the Secretariat should give priority to providing specialized protection advice and coordination in peacekeeping missions. While the primary responsibility to protect civilians lay with the host Government, threats posed by armed groups and other actors often compelled uniformed
personnel to use force to protect civilians. Welcome efforts had been made to complete guidelines for mission personnel on protection of civilians and on the use of force, taking local perceptions into account, and also to provide assistance to host Governments in the exercise of their responsibility to protect civilians.
75. Encouraging progress had been made in recent years towards improving support for peacebuilding in the immediate aftermath of conflict. The articulation of the role of peacekeepers as early peacebuilders, the elaboration of a policy on transitions, and the pursuit of the civilian capacity initiative had all clarified and strengthened the United Nations contribution. Significant steps had also been taken to align peacebuilding activities with national priorities and to support national institution-building. Since effective rule of law institutions were a precondition for sustainable peace and economic development, the establishment of the global focal point in the Department of Peacekeeping Operations and UNDP to coordinate support for the delivery of police, justice and corrections services to communities was welcome. Police in conflict settings were facing increasingly complex criminal activity that undermined the rule of law and hampered development goals; hence the United Nations Police Division had done well to develop specialist organized crime units within host nation police services, and also to advance the standardization of policing roles through the strategic guidance framework for international police.
76. In order to enhance the effectiveness of peacekeeping operations, the active participation of women at senior levels in peacekeeping missions and the incorporation of a gender perspective in training, planning and conduct of operations were needed. The recently adopted Security Council resolution 2122 (2013) on strengthening women's participation and leadership to resolve conflict and promote sustainable peace and security was to be applauded, as was Council resolution 2106 (2013) on conflict-related sexual violence, for which regrettably there was no end in sight. The two Departments should finalize and implement their forward-looking strategy on women, peace and security.
77. Effective mission transitions required clarity about mandates and goals. Recent United Nations guidance had focused on the key principles of leadership, integration of planning and operations, and adequate post-transition resources for the national and
12/14
13-53252
A/C.4/68/SR.15
international partners. Transition planning must allow for contingencies and respond flexibly to changing circumstances. Transition management needed to be based on objective, integrated assessments of progress and conditions on the ground, especially a realistic assessment of existing national capacities, needs and priorities, and assistance must be based on nationally identified needs and priorities, and tailored to local cultures and circumstances. Above all, transition planning and management needed to proceed as a partnership between the United Nations and the host Government. Long-term peacebuilding also required mutual accountability and sustained support.
78. The work of the Special Committee was essential to the overall direction of United Nations peacekeeping policy. Canada, Australia and New Zealand shared the disappointment expressed by others at its failure to produce a substantive report in 2013, and were counting on the group of friends of the Chair, in which they intended to be active and constructive participants, to break the impasse and set the stage for a substantive and productive Special Committee session in 2014. The consultations on working methods over the coming weeks should provide a valuable opportunity to restore the critical partnerships upon which United Nations peacekeeping depended.
79. The service of the men and women from all United Nations partners deployed in peacekeeping operations was commendable, and very special tribute must be paid to those who had made the ultimate sacrifice in the name of peace.
80. Mr. Vrailas (Observer for the European Union), speaking also on behalf of the candidate countries Iceland, Montenegro, Serbia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Turkey; the stabilization and association process countries Albania and Bosnia and Herzegovina; and, in addition, Georgia, the Republic of Moldova and Ukraine, said that the European Union was grateful for the work done by the Secretariat and valued the partnership among all those active in peacekeeping. Recognizing the demanding conditions in which peacekeepers carried out their work, the European Union acknowledged the sacrifices they made.
81. In the increasingly challenging environment facing United Nations peacekeeping, the Union particularly appreciated the efforts of the Secretariat to enhance the capabilities-driven approach. A
determination to right size peacekeeping operations and to focus on performance, standards and targeted training in order to improve quality in the field would make it possible to respond to more demanding situations within more constrained resources. In the light of scarce capacities, inter-mission cooperation had been enhanced and should be relied on more frequently. In addition, it was essential to maintain the focus on paving the way for successful transitions, and on coordination by peacekeeping leadership and personnel with other relevant actors on the ground and at Headquarters. The new post of Director for Strategic Partnerships was a useful new means of enhancing the mission performance and efficiency. Partnerships were increasingly important in peacekeeping. The European Union continued to expand its cooperation with the United Nations. For example, a European Union military mission to help train security forces in Mali was working alongside MINUSMA to achieve the shared aims.
82. The Secretariat was making commendable efforts to use modern technologies more widely in peacekeeping operations. The deployment of unarmed aerial vehicles by MONUSCO in the Congo was a good way to enhance the capacities of the mission. It would be useful to consider the use of such technology in other missions as well, especially because the safety and security of peacekeepers was a high priority.
83. The European Union continued to attach
considerable importance to protection of civilians. That was now one of the crucial dimensions of peacekeeping, often decisive in the success and legitimacy of United Nations operations. On the important issue of women, peace and security, it commended the recent adoption of Security Council resolution 2122 (2013) and encouraged further
mainstreaming of the gender perspective in peacekeeping mandates. Emphasis had rightly been placed on the conduct and discipline of personnel and the need to ensure zero tolerance for sexual exploitation and abuse. The implementation of Security Council resolution 1998 (2011) on children and armed conflict should also be encouraged.
84. It was important to continue to address the evolving challenges of peacekeeping in the Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations. The Special Committee had to remain a functional forum able to produce relevant and meaningful strategic guidance on peacekeeping operations, based on consensus. The
13-53252
13/14
A/C.4/68/SR.15
European Union looked forward to working in the new group of friends of the Chair, which ought to start very soon to prepare a better basis for the 2014 session of the Special Committee.
The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m.
14/14
13-53252