United Nations
A/C.4/65/SR.13
General Assembly
Distr.: General 6 December 2010
Original: English
Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee)
Summary record of the 13th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Thursday, 21 October 2010, at 3 p.m.
Chairperson: Mr. Flisiuk (Vice-Chairperson) (Poland)
Contents
Agenda item 54: Questions relating to information (continued)
This record is subject to correction. Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Official Records Editing Section, room DC2-750, 2 United Nations Plaza, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session, in a separate corrigendum for each Committee.
10-59634 (E)
lllllllllllllllllllllllll
A/C.4/65/SR.13
In the absence of Mr. Chipaziwa (Zimbabwe), Mr. Flisiuk (Poland), Vice-Chairperson, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.10p.m.
Agenda item 54: Questions relating to information
(continued) (A/65/21 and 277)
1. Ms. de Bourg-Exeter (Trinidad and Tobago), speaking on behalf of the member States of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), said that targeted dissemination of accurate information could contribute significantly to bringing about positive changes to the global audience served by the Department of Public Information. The Department was doing commendable work on the key issues discussed in the report of the Secretary-General (A/65/277). CARICOM was particularly impressed by its publicity campaigns in preparation for the High-level Plenary Meeting on the Millennium Development Goals, the Stand Up and Take Action against Poverty initiative, the launch of UN Women, and the first observance of Nelson Mandela International Day. The fellowship programme for journalists was another important aspect of the Department's outreach activities, which should receive continued support from Member States.
2. CARICOM was grateful to the Department for its exceptional efforts to provide balanced, frequent updates on Haiti after the devastating earthquake in January 2010, through the United Nations News Centre and on the website. While the Internet had become a primary medium of communication, however, it must be borne in mind that for the vast majority of people in Asia, Africa and Latin America and the Caribbean, traditional means of communication still predominated. CARICOM therefore remained supportive of the programme entitled “Caribbean News Roundup” in all the islands, including the Non-Self-Governing Territories. It welcomed the Department's efforts to achieve linguistic parity and to disseminate programmes directly to broadcasting stations and produce and disseminate television news, videos and features to broadcasters all over the world, including e-transmissions from the United Nations information centre for the Caribbean. She noted that Trinidad and Tobago's stations had been chosen as a partner of United Nations Television for 2010.
3. The United Nations information centre for the Caribbean provided information to 19 English-
speaking and Dutch-speaking Member States and Territories throughout the subregion. Her Government continued to provide office space rent-free to the information centre, allowing it to use its entire budget for its communications activities. As part of its regional information outreach, the centre had provided technical assistance to Aruba, Bonaire and Curasao following the dissolution of the Federation of the Netherlands Antilles in October 2010. It had also worked extensively with other regional offices to launch, in Barbados, the regional UNiTE to End Violence against Women campaign.
4. The Department needed to review, on a continuous basis, the allocation of both staff and financial resources to United Nations information centres in developing countries. Moreover, adequate resources must be made available to the Department so that it could discharge its mandate effectively.
5. The CARICOM member States looked forward to continued cooperation to ensure that the annual commemorative activities were a fitting tribute to the victims of slavery and to promote efforts to have a monument erected in their honour; continued support would be needed from the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), in respect of the international design competition in 2011, and from the Department, to generate support through media campaigns and other information dissemination mechanisms. The 2010 commemoration of the International Day of Remembrance of the Victims of Slavery had gone well; CARICOM endorsed the initiatives undertaken by Jamaica in connection with the Academic Impact Initiative, which would further enhance the global dialogue in that regard.
6. Mr. Bousselmi (Tunisia) said that his delegation would endeavour to deliver statements under agenda item 54 in as many official languages as possible in order to underscore the importance of multilingualism, develop the use of Arabic at all levels in the United Nations and draw attention to the diverse membership of the Organization.
7. Commending the Department of Public Information for its excellent work in communicating the activities and values of the United Nations, he expressed appreciation for the Department's willingness to contribute to the events marking the International Year of Youth and the United Nations Youth Conference, an initiative launched by Tunisia
2
10-59634
A/C.4/65/SR.13
with unanimous support from the General Assembly. He called on the Department to keep youth issues to the forefront in its programmes and expressed regret that the report of the Secretary-General on questions relating to information (A/65/277) had omitted to mention the celebration of International Youth Day 2010, in which the Department had played a central role.
8. Turning to the subject of the digital divide, he called for the implementation of the plans and programmes on which agreement had been reached at the World Summit on the Information Society held in Tunisia in 2005, and drew attention to the crucial role that the Department of Public Information could play in that regard.
9. He called for wider coverage by the Department of the Palestine issue, particularly via the United Nations website, and for efforts to improve the Arabic version of the website and increase the use of Arabic in the Organization in the interests of multilingualism. Expressing appreciation for the outstanding work of the Department and its staff, he recalled that all stakeholders shared responsibility for communicating the United Nations message and raising awareness of fundamental issues with a view to resolving them.
10. Mr. Wolfe (Jamaica) said that the Department of Public Information was working very effectively to ensure that the accomplishments of the United Nations in all three pillars of activity - peace and security, development and human rights - were made known across the globe. The Department's innovative programmes and its incorporation of new media in its treatment of thematic issues were indeed commendable. Through the annual celebration of Nelson Mandela International Day, the Department, working with the South African Government, would ensure that his legacy was preserved for future generations.
11. In the contemporary information age, the telecommunications technology revolution was reaching even the developing and least developed countries, but its cost prohibited easy access for a significant majority of their people. Consequently, traditional means of communication remained important and the United Nations should continue to rely on them.
12. Jamaica expressed its full support for the Department's work to reach out to youth; it welcomed
the Department's efforts to facilitate the participation of students from developing and least developed countries in the Global Model United Nations and urged it to facilitate attendance at other youth-focused initiatives, including the annual student conference on human rights. In the context of the International Year of Youth, it was heartening to see the United Nations take the lead in ensuring the participation of young people from developing and least developed countries, in particular. The Academic Impact Initiative had the potential to foster the exchange of ideas and establishment of university partnerships; Jamaica looked forward to playing a part in publicizing it.
13. Jamaica was pleased that the improvement of the content and coverage of the UN Chronicle was beginning to attract a higher readership, and welcomed the resumed publication of the Chronicle online in all official United Nations languages. The promotion of multiculturalism and multilingualism that was one of the hallmarks of the United Nations itself must continue to underpin all its work. The Department should continue to build its Language Days programme, eventually extending it to include indigenous languages spoken across the world.
14. His delegation urged the Department to raise awareness of the dangers of the illicit traffic in small arms and light weapons, a particular threat in the Caribbean region, in order to enable the international community to achieve tangible results in eradicating it globally. Jamaica also remained committed to working closely with the Department, in collaboration with its partners from Africa and the Caribbean Community, to achieve the dual objective of organizing annual commemorative activities in tribute to the victims of slavery and the trans-Atlantic slave trade, and erecting a permanent memorial in their honour. The Department was to be applauded for the range of commemorative activities it had organized in 2010 in collaboration with Member States and other interested parties, on the theme, Expressing our freedom through culture.
15. Mr. Uspensky (Russian Federation) said that the work of the Department of Public Information was of vital importance in ensuring access to information about the achievements of the Organization to all humanity, in accordance with one of the basic principles of the United Nations, the principle of equal rights. He commended the Department on the recent improvements to its website, which played a key role in illuminating the activities of the United Nations for
10-59634
3
A/C.4/65/SR.13
the general public, and stressed the need to ensure the equal development of the website in all the official languages. He expressed appreciation for the effective work performed by the United Nations News Centre in its Russian language coverage, in particular in meeting the needs of the growing number of Russian-speaking Internet users; his Government hoped that the Centre would continue to receive the necessary resources and funding to enable it to maintain that valuable service. In that context, his delegation noted with satisfaction the Department's work to inventory and digitize the archives of the Organization, including photo and video materials.
16. His delegation welcomed the Department's increasing use of new technologies and social media, which were valuable in reaching new audiences, particularly young people; at the same time, noting that barely 10 per cent of people in developing countries had access to the Internet, he called on the Department to maintain and further develop its radio and television services, with due respect for the parity of all six official languages of the Organization. He also expressed the hope that the logistical problems that had caused the interruption of Russian-language radio broadcasts to the Russian Federation earlier in the year could be avoided in future.
17. His delegation supported the Department's efforts to expand the network of radio and television partners throughout the world, and to increase the number of languages in which information was disseminated; those efforts should be intensified. It welcomed the expanded role of the United Nations information centres and, in particular, was pleased to note the good work performed by the United Nations information centre in Moscow, which served not only his country but the entire region of the Commonwealth of Independent States. His delegation welcomed the Department's efforts to develop partnerships with non-governmental and non-profit organizations through regular briefings and annual conferences. He also commended the Department's youth-oriented public information work, conducted through a number of successful programmes, and the newly established Academic Impact Programme.
18. Turning to the important issue of multilingualism, he said that the Russian Federation welcomed the initiative of United Nations Language Days, including Russian Language Day on 6 June, the anniversary of the birth of the poet Alexander Pushkin. He also noted
with appreciation the Department's wide coverage of United Nations work in various political, humanitarian and social fields, and welcomed the conduct of concerts at the United Nations to mark important occasions on its calendar. In that context, he expressed particular gratitude to the Department for its assistance in the organization of the concert by the Youth Symphony Orchestra of the Commonwealth of Independent States to mark the sixty-fifth anniversary of the Second World War. The noble cause of that concert - to ensure that such global conflicts never recurred and to prevent the rewriting and distortion of history - was also served, in his delegation's opinion, by the annual conduct of the International Day of Commemoration in Memory of the Victims of the Holocaust, an event which formed an important element of the Organization's outreach work.
19. Mr. Maboundou (Congo), expressing appreciation for the work of the Department of Public Information, stressed the need to ensure that its press releases faithfully reflected the views expressed by delegations. Misinterpreting the spirit and the substance of statements could have unfortunate consequences.
20. The new information and communication technologies, including new media, were contributing to economic and social development and the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals, but they could also accentuate disparities between the North and the South. In Africa, for example, large segments of the population did not have access to information about global problems or about their rights and responsibilities. It was important to strike a balance between traditional media and new technologies; the Digital Solidarity Fund, the main instrument for building a more inclusive information society, should have greater visibility.
21. His Government had developed a policy on the development of information and communication technology with a view to building an information society and digital economy by 2015. The programme, would include the development of a broadband telecommunications infrastructure, with the aim of achieving full connectivity by 2015. In May 2010, his Government had officially launched an interdepartmental fibre optic project that would ensure a regular flow of essential information. It would be connected to the large-scale national and subregional fibre optic network envisaged in the Transparency and Governance Capacity Building Project financed by the
4
10-59634
A/C.4/65/SR.13
World Bank. In addition, the Congo had hosted the third African Telecommunications Union Conference of Plenipotentiaries, which had discussed the issue of building an infrastructure for African digital development and adopted a declaration summarizing the commitments of African countries regarding the development of information and communication technologies, in the context of the African Telecommunications Union.
22. The United Nations information centres were to be commended for their work in relation to peacekeeping operations, human rights and training for journalists, as well as the observance of international days. In the Congo, the Brazzaville Information Centre had worked with a local non-governmental organization to moderate a discussion on various forms of discrimination based on skin colour and race. The information centres should be provided with additional resources so as to enable them to continue developing partnerships with local authorities, media and civil society to carry out innovative communications campaigns.
23. Stressing the importance of multilingualism and noting that parity among the six official languages of the United Nations had not yet been achieved, he urged the Department of Public Information to redouble efforts to narrow the ever-widening gap between English and the other languages.
24. Mr. Al-Zayani (Bahrain) expressed appreciation to the Department of Public Information for its efforts to deliver public information in the six official languages of the Organization in order to reach a wider audience, enhance the effectiveness of the messages contained in United Nations media products and draw attention to key issues of international concern. The Department should play a decisive role in helping to bridge the digital divide between developing and developed countries by establishing a new, more just and more effective world information and communication order, in line with General Assembly resolution 34/182, ensuring a free, wider and better balanced flow of information, in keeping with the communication strategy adopted by UNESCO at its General Conference held in 1989, and helping to share the benefits of new information and communication technologies, in line with the United Nations Millennium Declaration.
25. The establishment of a new information and communication order required cooperation to develop
appropriate infrastructure and provide capacity-building assistance and human resources training, especially in developing countries. Those countries continued to rely on the more traditional media for information, a factor which should be borne in mind when designing United Nations information products. In that connection, the United Nations information centres served a vital function, including by contributing to activities to mark occasions such as International Youth Day.
26. Commending the Department of Public Information for its work on the question of Palestine, he said that he hoped that the work would continue until a just solution for Palestine had been found.
27. Mr. Kafando (Burkina Faso), commending the work done by the Department of Public Information, said that the Committee should encourage and support the information and communication programmes and strategies carried out by the Department, with a view to increasing the visibility of the activities of the United Nations. The Department should continue striving to ensure a better balance among the six official languages of the United Nations. His delegation noted with satisfaction the Department's efforts to reach a wider audience with new information and communication technologies; however, all stakeholders should reinforce and coordinate their actions so as to promote better access to those new technologies for the countries of the South, especially in Africa. The use of traditional media should be continued so as to avoid accentuating the digital divide between the North and the South.
28. The United Nations information centres played a key role in promoting the work of the Organization; his delegation commended their efforts to strengthen their information and communication programmes at both the national and the subregional levels, while adopting communication strategies that were adapted to the needs of the countries they served. He called on Member States to continue to provide the necessary support to information centres, in view of the difficulties they were facing. His Government was providing to the United Nations information centre in Burkina Faso, which also covered Mali, Niger and Chad, rent-free premises, free weekly space on national television and free space on national radio for the production of a bimonthly programme on the work of the United Nations. Despite the support of the Department of Public Information and the Governments of the countries it served, the Centre was in need of additional funding. His delegation welcomed the
10-59634
5
A/C.4/65/SR.13
announcement that a United Nations information centre was to be established in Luanda, Angola, for Portuguese-speaking African countries.
29. Mr. Woldearegay (Ethiopia) said that although the Department of Public Information played a key role in providing accurate, impartial and comprehensive information about the work of the Organization, the lack of resources and technical means in developing countries made it difficult for those States to access and utilize the Department's outputs. His delegation therefore believed that the United Nations, other pertinent organizations and civil society should mobilize resources and know-how to close the digital divide between the developed and developing countries.
30. The Department had contributed significantly towards raising global awareness on key issues of vital importance for humanity. Ethiopia, while being appreciative of what the Department had done so far in that respect, believed that its system-wide campaign to build momentum towards the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals by 2015 should be further enhanced.
31. The use of traditional media, including radio, television and print, was still important in many developing countries. The United Nations, along with its partners, should further enhance the dissemination of information in as many widely spoken languages as possible.
32. Ms. Merritt (United States of America) said that her delegation continued to encourage the UnderSecretary-General for Communications and Public Information to identify ways to improve coordination, efficiency and integration of the activities of the Department of Public Information throughout the entire United Nations system. In that respect, her delegation appreciated the Department's efforts to enhance efficiency in supporting the commemorative events it covered regularly throughout the year but also underscored the importance of ensuring robust programming for integral outreach activities such as the International Day of Remembrance of the Victims of Slavery, the International Day of Commemoration in memory of the victims of the Holocaust, the International Day of Reflection on the 1994 Genocide in Rwanda and similar United Nations programmes.
33. Mr. Zhumabekov (Kazakhstan) said that the Department of Public Information played a vital role in raising awareness of key issues, in particular the
Millennium Development Goals and the establishment of UN Women. The Department should highlight the significance of Security Council resolution 1325 (2000), on women and peace and security, on the tenth anniversary of its adoption.
34. In 2009, on the initiative of Kazakhstan, the General Assembly had adopted resolution 64/35, by which 27 August had been proclaimed the International Day against Nuclear Tests, marking the day in 1991 when President Nazarbaev had closed Kazakhstan's nuclear test-site in Semipalatinsk. The Day also served to highlight the need for international efforts to ensure that atomic energy was used exclusively for peaceful purposes and to serve the benefit of all humankind. In that context, he conveyed his delegation's gratitude to the Under-Secretary-General and all staff of the Department for the support that they had provided Kazakhstan in its conduct of activities to mark the Day in New York. That success had demonstrated the need for such awareness-raising to be conducted on a permanent basis and as widely as possible across the world; his delegation accordingly called on the Department to continue its efforts to promote a worldwide ban on nuclear testing and to cooperate more extensively in that endeavour with other Secretariat departments involved in nuclear weaponsrelated work.
35. Closer coordination between the Department and the Committee on Information would ensure more efficient coverage of United Nations activities. His delegation supported the review by the Department of new methods of work, in particular the Academic Impact Initiative. It welcomed the organization of Language Days and the efforts to make greater use of different languages in providing information about the work of the United Nations to peoples in different countries and regions. His delegation expressed concern about the funding cuts suffered by the Department and their inevitable impact on its work.
36. Mr. Sahraei (Islamic Republic of Iran) said that the most important mission of the Department of Public Information should be to provide all people with accurate, balanced, comprehensive, timely and relevant information about the tasks and responsibilities of the United Nations. There should be closer cooperation and more coordination between the Department and the Committee on Information, which played an important role in reviewing United Nations public information policies and activities. His delegation commended the
6
10-59634
A/C.4/65/SR.13
adoption of General Assembly resolution 64/253, in which it recognized 21 March as the International Day of Nowruz, and encouraged the Department to contribute to the celebration of Nowruz and to play an effective role in raising awareness of that event.
37. The persistence of the digital gap and the lack of resources and technical equipment were among the main challenges facing the developing world. Developing countries suffered from an unjust, inequitable, partial and monopolized world of media. It was regrettable that certain developed countries, taking advantage of their monopoly of modern communication technology, were continuously trying to distort facts and fabricate events and realities, especially in relation to developing countries. The international community should take steps to rectify the imbalances in the enjoyment of information and communication technologies by all Member States. In that regard, his delegation encouraged the Department to play an effective role in the establishment of a new world information and communication order based on the free circulation and balanced dissemination of information. To that end, the Department should enhance its technological infrastructure with a view to improving its activities, especially in areas that were of special interest to developing countries.
38. The Department had an important responsibility to raise international awareness regarding the question of Palestine and shed more light on the negative impact of the illegitimate occupation on the humanitarian situation in the occupied Palestinian territories. His delegation deplored the increasing acts of Islamophobia, the growing trend of intolerance towards Muslims and the mounting number of acts of violence against Muslims in some Western societies. It called upon the Department to use its worldwide presence in order to counter that phenomenon and foster religious tolerance and respect for all religions and cultural values.
39. The United Nations information centres were the real interface between the United Nations and the international community and played a crucial role in enhancing the public image of the Organization. There should be close consultation and better coordination between the information centres and the host countries. New information and communication technologies should be made available, adequate resources should be allocated to those centres, and careful attention should be paid to the cultural, social and economic
characteristics and needs of the different regions served by the centres.
40. His delegation attached great importance to the Department's efforts in ensuring multilingualism. The Department should continue to diversify its efforts to encompass not only all six official languages of the United Nations, but also those local languages which were widely regarded as the roots of great cultures and civilizations, including Persian, which was a unique source of integrity and solidarity among several nations in the region.
41. Ms. Laose (Nigeria) said that as a country with a predominantly youthful population, Nigeria appreciated the continued outreach of the Department of Public Information to young people. The future belonged to the young and therefore only by engaging them would global understanding be enhanced and the culture of peace among civilizations be solidly built. Linking the people of Africa - 70 per cent of whom were young people - to the rest of the world should be a priority. If information reached young Africans, it would reduce illiteracy, increase understanding and pave the way for a more politically, economically and socially stable Africa and thus for global peace and security.
42. Nigeria prided itself as a pacesetter in freedom of the press in Africa. Her Government was committed to a strict application of the rule of law and, by extension, to respect for all fundamental freedoms. It therefore condemned extrajudicial restrictions on journalists, some of whom had had to pay with their lives for publishing what they believed in.
43. The production of information in multiple languages and the reliance on both traditional and modern methods of communication were allowing the Department to publicize the diverse activities of the United Nations more effectively. It should spare no efforts to ensure that regions that lacked the resources to enjoy the full benefits of the information highway had access to information.
44. As a troop-contributing country, Nigeria had a particular interest in the safety and success of peacekeeping operations and peacekeepers. The reception given to peacekeepers in their countries of operation depended by and large on how they were perceived by them. The Department's continued good work of disseminating information in host countries, especially when well-targeted even before the arrival of the peacekeepers, would create an enabling
10-59634
7
A/C.4/65/SR.13
environment and thus help further the United Nations goals of international peace and security.
45. Mr. Ramadan (Lebanon) said that a strong partnership between the Department of Public Information and the Committee on Information was essential to ensure the success of the Department's advocacy role. The Department would, moreover, succeed if it reached out to the widest possible audiences, including those in developing countries that lacked the resources and the means to access information on the full range of the Organization's activities. His delegation commended the Department's special information programme on the question of Palestine, which was raising awareness about the suffering of the Palestinian people under occupation and advancing a just solution to the Arab-Israeli conflict in accordance with Security Council resolutions, and also its annual training programme for 10 young Palestinian journalists.
46. Success would also depend on a more extensive reliance by the Department on multilingualism: full parity should be achieved for all United Nations websites in all the official languages in terms of resources and technical support, and information should, as far as possible, be disseminated in local languages wherever United Nations information centres existed. In order to strengthen its role in bridging the digital divide between the developing and developed countries, the Department should be provided with the necessary resources, which must be deployed effectively. It was also important to strengthen the role and outreach of the United Nations information centres, which were currently producing information in more than 40 languages and maintaining websites in 29 languages. Lebanon itself valued the work carried out by the United Nations information centre in Beirut. Lastly, enhancing and protecting the freedom of the media was a basic condition of the Department's effectiveness.
47. Ms. Khan (Bangladesh) said that her Government appreciated the emphasis on multilingualism by the Department of Public Information, and especially the personal interest taken by the Under-Secretary-General to ensure language parity on the United Nations website and elsewhere. The institution of Language Days had been a laudable initiative. Furthermore, the International Mother Language Day should be observed meaningfully throughout the world. Numerous minority languages were under threat owing to globalization and economic disintegration; they needed support not only
to survive but also to find their rightful place in the global landscape of languages. Language represented not only individual cultural heritage but also the common bond that united all peoples.
48. As a major troop- and police-contributing country, Bangladesh urged the Department to publicize, locally and internationally, the services rendered by United Nations peacekeepers. Her Government's commitment to gender mainstreaming was reflected in its deployment of an all-female police contingent in Haiti.
49. Climate change was another urgent issue. Bangladesh, being one of the most vulnerable countries, believed that the Department should further enhance its approach at both the strategic and the operational levels, not only disseminating information but also helping to bridge information gaps and tying together skills and knowledge from across the globe to fight the challenge collectively.
50. In a world increasingly divided over issues of culture and religion, the Department must take the lead in conducting a cohesive, inclusive communications campaign that stressed commonality, not differences, and should highlight ways for people to find solidarity through cultural exchanges. Bengal's great poet Rabindranath Tagore had expressed a dream of a world free of bigotry, hatred and oppression and, in that context, the Department should consider ways of honouring the 150th anniversary of his birth in 2011.
51. Mr. Harleston (Sierra Leone) said that, given the crucial need for a multilateral response to contemporary challenges, the work done by the Department of Public Information to disseminate information and raise public awareness of the issues became increasingly critical. Information was a cornerstone of success in an ever-changing world; in the absence of credible news, rumour-mongering was rife. The network of United Nations information centres was an example of how information could flow seamlessly throughout the world and narrow the existing divide between the developed and developing countries in accessing information. Sierra Leone also welcomed the effort to increase the number of United Nations radio stations and improve their programming globally. The conflict in Sierra Leone had shown how United Nations Radio could play a critical role, and have more reach than national radio. The Department should now spread the word of the success of the United Nations Integrated Peacebuilding Mission in Sierra Leone.
8
10-59634
A/C.4/65/SR.13
52. The increasing use of online media and social networking sites underscored the challenge faced by developing countries and the growing divide in the area of communications technology between Africa and the rest of the world. The developing countries had to act if they wanted to catch up with the flow of communication. Although the Internet was becoming more established, still only about 4 per cent of Africans had access to it.
53. Sierra Leone had been making strides in overhauling its information and communications sector, having enacted legislation that had made the Sierra Leone broadcasting service an independent broadcaster, and drafted legislation on freedom of information. Under its national information and communications technology policy, an advisory council was to be set up, and efforts were under way to bring information services to rural areas by installing fibre-optic cables across the length and breadth of the country. Through an open governance initiative, his Government had brought ordinary people and government officials together in a series of forums throughout the country, so that concerns and questions could be raised and answered directly. Because sustainable development required direct action, one of his Government's major priorities had been an agenda for change, instituting structural changes to ensure participatory and shared prosperity.
54. As a troop-contributing country, Sierra Leone was eager to foster wider international peace and security and recognized the invaluable service in that regard provided by the dissemination of information. It supported the Department's determination to uphold freedom of information as a natural right.
Adoption of draft resolutions
55. The Chairperson said he took it that the Committee wished to take a decision on the two draft resolutions on questions relating to information jointly: draft resolution A, on information in the service of humanity, and draft resolution B, on United Nations public information policies and activities, both contained in the report of the Committee on Information (A/65/21, chap. IV). Neither draft resolution had any programme budget implications.
56. Draft resolution A and draft resolution B were adopted.
The meeting rose at 5 p.m.
10-59634
9