United Nations
A/C.4/67/SR.19
General Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
Official Records
Distr.: General 30 January 2013
Original: English
Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee)
Summary record of the 19th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Thursday, 8 November 2012, at 3 p.m.
Chair: Mr. Messone (Gabon)
later: Mr. Felopoulos (Vice-Chair) (Greece)
later: Mr. Messone (Gabon)
Contents
Agenda item 54: Comprehensive review of the whole question of peacekeeping operations in all their aspects (continued)
This record is subject to correction. Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Official Records Editing Section, room DC2-750, 2 United Nations Plaza, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session, in a separate corrigendum for each Committee.
12-58023 (E)
llllllllllllllllllllllll
A/C.4/67/SR.19
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda item 54: Comprehensive review of the whole question of peacekeeping operations in all their aspects (continued) (A/67/312-S/2012/645)
1. Mr. Wang Min (China) said that United Nations peacekeeping was facing new challenges in the solution of political conflicts as it confronted the gap between the size and the efficiency of peacekeeping operations and between their mandates and their capacity. The Committee could bring lessons and experience to bear in order to enable peacekeeping operations to meet their needs.
2. The fundamental purpose of peacekeeping was the political and peaceful settlement of regional conflicts and international disputes. While priority should be given to the prevention of conflicts, United Nations peacekeeping operations should strictly follow the principles of consent of the host country, neutrality and non-use of force except in self-defence or when authorized and should comply fully with Security Council mandates. They should also remain impartial in order not to become involved in conflicts.
3. The size of peacekeeping operations was growing with ever-expanding mandates and logistical support, and resources were limited. He urged countries with relevant human resources and technical capacities to help to overcome that gap and welcomed the Department of Field Support's efforts in that regard.
4. Mandate planning should be strengthened and there should be better coordination between peacekeeping and peacebuilding to avoid waste and duplication. The international community should give greater importance to the Peacebuilding Commission and the Secretariat, and the international financial institutions and relevant regional organizations should help States to overcome conflicts and achieve lasting peace. Enhancing partnerships with regional organizations was also crucial to success; he encouraged the African Union and other organizations to play a stronger role in that regard.
5. Mr. Idris (Eritrea) said in the past decade, developments in the global political and security environment had made peacekeeping a multidimensional and complex task. While it must adapt in order to meet current and future challenges, any adjustment should be in keeping with the principles of respect for sovereignty and territorial
integrity, consent of the parties, impartiality and nonuse of force except in self-defence or to protect its mandate. The use of modern surveillance technology must be based on a comprehensive and transparent intergovernmental process.
6. Recent years had seen an over-emphasis on peacekeeping deployment; such operations were not a substitute for addressing the root causes of conflicts in a coordinated, comprehensive manner as a prerequisite for lasting peace. Synergy between peacekeeping, early peacebuilding and clear objectives and exit strategies could help to achieve that goal. In peacekeeping missions with civilian protection mandates, extra caution was needed to ensure that the national authorities were not undermined and Governments' capacities must be strengthened since they bore the primary responsibility for protecting their citizens.
7. The Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations was an important intergovernmental forum in which peacekeeping operations could be reviewed. Its reports played a key role in improving the overall effectiveness of such operations and provided the Secretariat with guidance. All partners should demonstrate the necessary political will to ensure the timely completion of the Special Committee's work at its next session.
8. His delegation supported the zero tolerance policy regarding conduct and discipline. While it welcomed the decrease in the number of violations, it regretted that the most egregious forms of misconduct continued. Greater efforts was needed in order to ensure that all personnel in United Nations field missions performed in a manner that respected their mandate and preserved the image and credibility of the Organization.
9. In closing, he paid tribute to the peacekeepers who had lost their lives while serving in missions around the world.
10. Ms. March Smith (Norway) said that the five peacekeepers who had been killed in Darfur during the past month were a reminder of the dangers and new challenges facing United Nations peacekeepers. She joined other delegations in paying tribute to them and to the other men and women who had given their lives in the service of peace during the past year.
11. Even now, new challenges were developing in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, where civilians
2
12-58023
A/C.4/67/SR.19
were fleeing violence and serious human rights violations by armed entities. The underlying differences that were threatening the peacekeeping partnership must be overcome and while her delegation fully recognized that Member States had legitimate concerns with regard to troop costs, much-needed reforms must not be held hostage to that issue. It was to be hoped that the recent compromise on reimbursement rates by the Senior Advisory Group for the Review of International Civilian Capacities would break the negative pattern of protracted negotiations on the report of the Special Committee as lack of consensus sent a bad signal; she wondered how host countries could have faith in United Nations peacekeeping when Member States could not agree on proposals to enhance the capacity of the United Nations to fulfil its responsibilities in that field. Her delegation therefore welcomed the ongoing reform of the Special Committee's working methods and terms of reference, which should be pursued.
12. Peacekeeping was at a crossroads. The overall trend was towards a reduction in the number of both operations and personnel, but the gradual return of troops from Afghanistan might eventually result in an increase in Western troops in United Nations peacekeeping operations. That window of opportunity should be used to improve performance and speed up the New Horizon reform process.
13. In light of the austerity constraints that affected many Member States, mandates should be realistic and matched with appropriate resources. In particular, mandates to protect civilians must not give the false impression of assistance that would never materialize. Her delegation therefore welcomed the progress on the Protection of Civilians Resource and Capability Matrix; protection efforts should also be informed by lessons learned from the implementation of other protection strategies.
14. The force generation system must be improved by developing transparent, predictable mid- and long-term planning processes, and efforts to enhance the impact of missions through the development of capability standards must continue. Her delegation supported the pilot projects and awaited the results of the testing standards for infantry battalions, staff officers and military medical support. She encouraged the Secretariat to continue to work with Member States to develop such standards for all relevant peacekeeping components and as a basis for training.
15. Women must be engaged in all aspects and at all levels of peacekeeping operations; her delegation therefore supported the Secretariat's efforts to bridge the gender gap in peacekeeping operations. The Organization needed to become better at recruiting and retaining women, especially from the global South.
16. She encouraged the United Nations to seek partnerships with other key actors in responding to the rising demand for civilians in peace operations and ensuring the best possible use of existing capacities and the development of new capacities in the South. The Organization should continue to explore innovative approaches with a view to developing national capacity in host countries. For example, because national police officers were too often among the worst perpetrators of human rights violations, it was important to strengthen police capacities in order to protect civilians. Her Government therefore planned to provide a team of police advisers to a serious crime support unit in the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti (MINUSTAH).
17. Innovation was a prominent feature in the evolving relationship between the United Nations and the African Union. Lessons learned from the African Union-United Nations Hybrid Operation in Darfur (UNAMID) and the African Union Military Observer Mission in Somalia (AMISOM) should be taken into account in discussions on peacekeeping. The ultimate task was to enhance the Organization's capacity to fulfil its responsibilities in that area, whether it was in the lead or supporting other organizations.
18. Mr. Manjeev Singh Puri (India) said that the past year had been particularly challenging for peacekeepers; he paid tribute to those who had laid down their lives in the service of international peace and security.
19. The evolving and adaptable nature of United Nations peacekeeping, which was the Organization's flagship activity, remained its core strength. Evaluations based on cost considerations alone did not take into account all aspects of mission mandates or the obligation of Member States to preserve international peace and security. Ambitious mandates, resource overstretch and gaps between needs in the field and support from Headquarters continued to challenge the ability of peacekeepers to deliver, yet peacekeeping forces must continue to protect civilians while supporting national elections and initiatives in the
12-58023
3
A/C.4/67/SR.19
Democratic Republic of the Congo, among others, within existing resources. His delegation recommended that all peacekeeping operations should take a strong field orientation and should leverage the available expertise from troop contributing countries and field experts.
20. Peacekeeping rested on the decades-old principles of impartiality, consent and non-use of force; alterations in the established approach should not be undertaken with undue haste. The convictions of Member States should emanate not only from their belief systems but from evidence on the ground. The intergovernmental nature of the peacekeeping reform and policy process was of great importance; thus, the Secretariat should continue to seek views from the wider membership of the Organization and the democratic basis of the Special Committee, the sole legislative body of the General Assembly responsible for peacekeeping, should be strengthened. The peacekeeping partnership hinged on the abilities that each party brought to the table, and decision-making should reflect that reality; burden-sharing and rewards should be commensurate with the effort invested. His delegation looked forward to improvement in that regard.
21. The challenges of prolonged peacekeeping missions deployed in response to protracted conflicts should be thought through before launching such operations in order to manage the expectations of Member States and host populations. There should be more dialogue between peacekeeping and peacebuilding officials and the objectives of Statebuilding and institution-building required matching commitments in resources. Mission priorities should be firmly aligned with national needs and priorities.
22. The peacekeeping reform agenda should strive for greater balance. The police, the rule of law, the security sector and disarmament were critical areas that had received little attention owing to the focus on field support. Basic governance and preliminary administration frameworks should remain the primary goals in post-conflict scenarios as they were prerequisites for development and economic revitalization. His delegation encouraged the Department of Field Support to engage the wider membership in substantive aspects of deliberations. The review of civilian capacity should be conducted in an intergovernmental setting and should be membership-driven; it should focus on benefits to the
Organization and keep Member States updated on its implementation road map.
23. Lastly, his delegation fully supported zero tolerance on disciplinary and conduct issues. He welcomed efforts to ensure gender mainstreaming in all peacekeeping missions and, in that connection, drew attention to India's all-women police unit in Liberia.
24. Mr. Abulhasan (Kuwait) said that the Department of Peacekeeping Operations had contributed constructively to the effort to keep the peace around the world. He reiterated the need for a careful definition of the functions and objectives of peacekeeping and other humanitarian operations. The Security Council and troop-contributing countries should coordinate their efforts and seek new mechanisms to ensure that all stages in an operation were duly carried out and to share best practices and lessons learned. It was essential for peacekeeping operations to be adequately funded and for peacekeeping troops to be properly equipped and supplied. In addition, field studies should be conducted to determine the technical and training needs of United Nations forces. The role of the Organization in the area of preventive diplomacy and conflict early warning should be strengthened.
25. The basic principles for the deployment of any mission, including the consent of the host country, neutrality and non-use of force, must be respected and the difficult situation of developing countries must be taken into consideration in calculating contributions to the peacekeeping budget. That said, it was to be hoped that all States would make their contributions in full and in a timely manner.
Mr. Felopoulos (Greece), Vice-Chair, took the Chair
26. Mr. Tarawneh (Jordan) said that his country had contributed more than 3,600 Blue Helmets around the world. The contribution made by troop-contributing countries was an important factor in policy development and decision-making; efforts to resolve conflicts at the source should, however, be made. Security for peacekeepers should be strengthened by gathering more reliable risk assessment data in the field, among other means. Peacekeepers should not be deployed in areas too large for them to cover effectively as that would tend to expose them to danger. The safer the Blue Helmets, the more effectively they could protect civilians.
4
12-58023
A/C.4/67/SR.19
27. The Senior Advisory Group was doing admirable work on the issue of financial compensation for peacekeeping operations and should complete its task as soon as possible. Furthermore, impartiality was an integral part of peacekeeping operations and discipline should be enforced in cases of misconduct. The contributions of all peacekeepers, including the men and women of Jordan, were a source of legitimate pride.
28. Mr. Iliichev (Russian Federation) said that peacekeeping faced an enormous challenge as the need for operations arose in new locations, even those with internal political crises in progress, and global crossborder threats such as the spread of weapons, organized crime and drug trafficking increased. Although the Security Council should respond to changes in global realities, the basic function of peacekeeping operations continued to be ensuring peace and security in the countries of deployment and in order to meet that goal, they needed realistic and attainable mandates. The Special Committee, the primary body mandated to implement political recommendations with respect to peacekeeping in all its aspects, should strive to reach and maintain consensus and to adopt its report on a timely basis.
29. In addition to peacekeeping operations, the United Nations had at its disposal the option of special political missions by advisers to the Secretary-General and peacebuilding offices. Moreover, its funds and programmes were effective on the ground and their efforts should not be duplicated by peacekeeping operations, nor should the New Horizon initiative undermine the mechanisms and institutions that had been in use for decades. It was counter-productive and dangerous to interpret Security Council mandates too broadly. Recently, there had been an unjustified focus on the protection of civilians. His country would not like to interpret peacekeeping mandates exclusively through that prism, just as it was inappropriate to interpret international humanitarian law arbitrarily in pursuit of political tools and as a pretext for interference in States' internal affairs; human rights ceased to interest some countries once they had attained those goals. There were also attempts to insert new formulas into the international community's crisis response; the experience in Libya should not be considered a model for future crises. Peacekeeping operations had a legitimate role and when Blue Helmets cast aside their neutrality, as in Cote d'Ivoire,
they risked losing that legitimacy. The deployment strategies of peacekeeping operations must be reviewed, especially in light of the current international financial crisis. Efforts to achieve conflict prevention and long-term stability were of the utmost importance. Lastly, when operations were deployed, they must be withdrawn in a timely manner.
30. Mr. Kasymov (Kyrgyzstan) said that peacekeeping operations were one of the fundamental tools for the effective maintenance of peace and security throughout the world and an important and necessary element in the settlement of conflicts. Clearly, the peacekeeping potential of the United Nations had been consolidated, both quantitatively and qualitatively. However, it was crucial to adopt a comprehensive approach to peace; his delegation supported a harmonious blend of military, diplomatic and other necessary measures. Mechanisms must be finely tuned to improve resource mobilization efforts.
31. There must be strict compliance with the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and Member States should help to increase the effectiveness of peacekeeping, including through measures aimed at stepping up women's participation. In that regard, he welcomed the Secretary-General's efforts to increase the number of women in highranking positions. Given the significance of peacekeeping operations, there should be more effective cooperation with regional and subregional organizations.
32. Kyrgyzstan, whose contributions to peacekeeping had begun in 1998, continued to provide such support; it had been among the first countries to send observers to the Syrian Arab Republic and was working to finetune the legal basis for its continued participation with international and regional bodies.
33. Mr. Nazario (South Sudan) recalled that, the day before the declaration of his country's independence on 9 July 2011, the Security Council had unanimously adopted a resolution establishing the United Nations Mission in South Sudan (UNMISS) to support the new Government's efforts to meet political, security and protection challenges, build a legitimate authority and create an enabling environment for long-term peacebuilding, State-building and socioeconomic development.
34. A civil disarmament process, “Operation Restore Peace”, had been launched in Jonglei State, one of the
12-58023
5
A/C.4/67/SR.19
volatile regions of the country. During that process, the Government and UNMISS had conducted awarenessraising campaigns to encourage communities to voluntarily surrender their weapons; the peacekeeping mission had closely monitored that process and had deployed an integrated monitoring team comprising police, civilian and military staff. The Government continued to address the issue of disarmament, having collected some 10,400 weapons, and its security forces maintained a buffer zone between communities in conflict. A new national disarmament, demobilization and reintegration policy that reflected lessons learned had been developed with the help of the Sudan People's Liberation Army (SPLA), the United Nations, independent consultants and other partners.
35. Since independence, South Sudan had endeavoured to establish a Government and institutions that reflected international norms and standards and embodied good governance and the rule of law. In the security sector, UNMISS was working closely with the South Sudan Police Service at the national, state and country levels to develop community policing that could provide rapid, responsive law enforcement. Human rights, particularly those of women and children, were emphasized by the Government and a Joint Monitoring Unit had been established to monitor and report on violations of the rights of children.
36. His Government looked forward to proactive engagement with the Organization on the issue of his country's borders with the Sudan. His delegation wished to thank the United Nations Interim Security Force for Abyei (UNISFA) for helping the people of Abyei to normalize their lives and stressed the importance of cooperation between UNISFA and UNMISS in ensuring the security arrangements agreed between the Sudan and South Sudan were respected and implemented in good faith. He called on the United Nations to endorse the proposal put forward by the African Union High-level Implementation Panel (AUHIP) on Sudan and urged the Sudan to consider it with a view to final settlement of the dispute concerning Abyei.
37. Lastly, he thanked the countries that had contributed troops and personnel to UNMISS. His Government had pledged to continue to cooperate with its international partners with a view to achieving the benchmarks outlined in the report of the SecretaryGeneral on South Sudan (S/2012/486).
38. Mr. Mohammad Masood Khan (Pakistan) said that the recent success of peacekeeping operations had galvanized international confidence in the United Nations and led to a surge in demand. The future success of such operations would require strict adherence to their guiding principles: the consent of the parties, impartiality and non-use of force except in self-defence. He paid tribute to the men and women who had lost their lives in the service of global peace and security; on average, nearly 100 peacekeepers made that supreme sacrifice each year, and Pakistan had had one of the highest numbers of fatalities of any troop contributor. For over 50 years, it had been a consistent contributor to peacekeeping missions in all parts of the world as a practical affirmation of its abiding faith in the purposes and principles of the Charter, and peacekeeping was an integral part of his Government's foreign policy.
39. Peacekeeping operations should have realistic and achievable mandates that provided for due legal scrutiny, and adequate and timely resources should be deployed for their implementation. Efficient entry and exit strategies would ensure a seamless transition from conflict to post-conflict stability, peacebuilding and long-term political and economic recovery, and operations should be implemented within their respective financial constraints.
40. As a leading troop contributor, his Government recommended that those issues should be addressed through stronger triangular cooperation among the Security Council, troop contributors and the Secretariat; more open communication would result in improved administrative and logistic arrangements, particularly for drawdown or inter-mission transfers. Increased representation of troop-contributing countries in operational and managerial positions in the field and at Headquarters could facilitate that partnership. The complementary role of peacekeepers in peacebuilding should be better understood and the scope of peacekeeping must be better recognized: it could neither substitute for a viable political process nor bypass the need to address the root causes of conflicts. Peacekeeping should be distinguished from traditional law enforcement since peacekeepers protected civilians in close liaison with local authorities. The downsizing of missions should be based on realities in the field, not systemic financial constraints. The timely deployment of aviation assets was becoming increasingly important; his delegation
6
12-58023
A/C.4/67/SR.19
abondorsed the use of emerging technologies in order to ensure the safety of troops and address operational challenges.
41. Budgets should reflect the results achieved to date; peacekeeping was a highly cost-effective endeavour. The issue of troop costs must be evaluated in light of the remuneration of other United Nations field personnel. The report of the Senior Advisory Group on rates of reimbursement to troop-contributing countries and other related issues (A/C.5/67/10) reflected the flexibility of troop-contributing countries and their commitment to partnership.
42. His delegation had taken note of the global field support strategy. While it welcomed the establishment of the Regional Service Centre in Entebbe, it stressed that any proposal to add more centres at the global and regional levels must meet cost-benefit criteria and avoid fragmentation in decision-making. Policies and decisions could not be outsourced to peripheral establishments outside United Nations headquarters; greater coherence demanded more clarity and an avoidance of duplication.
Mr. Messone (Gabon) resumed the Chair
43. Mr. Orellana Zabalza (Guatemala) said that as both a beneficiary of and a provider to peacekeeping operations, his Government took a great interest in the agenda item. It supported the global field support strategy because in improving peacekeeping operations, it was important to continue interaction between delegations in New York, contingents deployed in the field and heads of mission. All parties should share their knowledge and understand fully the implications of the changes under way and mandates should be clear, feasible, verifiable and adapted to the specific situation. The existing gaps in capacity, resources and training should be addressed in order to implement Security Council mandates successfully and the periodic Secretariat assessments of peacekeeping operations should be shared with troop-contributing countries.
44. It was important to recognize that each country could make a particular contribution to peacekeeping; therefore, triangular cooperation among the Security Council, the Secretariat and the troop-contributing countries should be strengthened in the areas of decision-making, changes in mandates, periodic mission assessments and troop numbers. The Special
Committee could make an important contribution in that regard.
45. The cost of troops was a matter that could not be ignored: while roughly 90 per cent of the peacekeeping budget was provided by fewer than ten industrialized countries, more than 90 per cent of the troops came from developing countries. The resulting accumulated stress might eventually result in an accident or a potential clash between States that could compromise the future of peacekeeping. There was no rational explanation of the way in which troop contributors' reimbursements were calculated, nor had a cost-benefit analysis of peacekeeping operations been conducted. The benefit of saving lives and keeping the peace could not be expressed in dollar terms, but the costs to Member States were real. It was an insult to troopcontributing countries to see peacekeeping as an outsourcing exercise whereby developed countries borrowed troops from developing ones. In Guatemala, peacekeeping was not considered a well-paid service, but as a genuine partnership where the country's participation was driven by pride and commitment to United Nations principles. The Senior Advisory Group's proposals for determining reimbursement rates would therefore be welcome.
46. Lastly, he stressed that the Special Committee was the only forum with a mandate to give comprehensive consideration to the entire question of United Nations peacekeeping operations. He urged the Bureau to facilitate continued informal dialogue between members of the Special Committee in order to consider ways to improve its work.
47. Mr. Coulibaly (Burkina Faso) said that his Government was committed to international peace and security. Burkina Faso had participated in peacekeeping since 1993 and, as at 30 August 2012, 1,093 of its soldiers and police officers had been deployed at seven peacekeeping operations while 140 more were posted to Guinea-Bissau under the aegis of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS).
48. Many challenges had made peacekeeping operations complex and diverse and had led to more robust mandates and the participation of new international actors in a broader range of tasks. His delegation especially welcomed the global field support strategy and the resulting establishment of the Global Service Centre in Brindisi and the Regional
12-58023
7
A/C.4/67/SR.19
Service Centre in Entebbe, which had cut deployment times and ensured effective logistical support. Peacekeeping operations must be based on the principles of the Charter and must be conducted without the use of force except for self-defence, in full neutrality and with respect for the sovereignty, political independence and territorial integrity of States. Missions must have a clear, feasible mandate; support a political process; include States and organizations of the region and subregion; establish effective cooperation among all key stakeholders, including mediators, special representatives and heads of mission; and ensure organization and logistical support.
49. The success of any mission depended on financing. Nevertheless, decisions regarding current and future mandates should not be guided solely by projected cost estimates, but by the desire to maintain international peace and security. Furthermore, the United Nations must endeavour to ensure that women were better represented in missions. Since September 2012, his Government had been developing a national policy with a view to increasing the number of women police and gendarmerie officers deployed on peacekeeping operations.
50. The situation of civilians in armed conflict, who were subjected to all manner of atrocities, remained a matter of great concern. He called on all parties to conflicts to uphold the principles of international humanitarian law and welcomed the central role of civilian protection in several current peacekeeping operations. While the host State bore the primary responsibility for protecting its people, the international community must also work to ensure that all parties fulfilled their commitments in that regard; the credibility of the Organization and its peacekeeping operations was at stake.
51. It was unreasonable that the cost of equipment was reviewed every three years in order to take inflation into account, while troop reimbursements had remained at the same level for the past 15 years; an immediate solution must be found. Furthermore, the international community should endeavour to prevent conflicts by addressing the issues, such as governance, poverty, justice and wealth distribution, which often led to them.
52. Mr. Grujic (Serbia) said that, as multifaceted undertakings, peacekeeping operations required a
coherent, inclusive approach and an integrated planning and execution strategy. Given increasingly difficult operational environments and the scale and complexity of the challenges faced, United Nations peacekeeping capacity and resources must be strengthened in order to ensure the smooth functioning of field operations and the effective implementation of their diversified tasks. A principle of analysis and review should be more firmly established for each mission, together with continuous dialogue and enhanced coordination among all stakeholders throughout its life cycle. The active involvement of troop- and police-contributing countries in all phases of planning and execution was particularly important. In addition, the effectiveness of peacekeeping burdensharing could be improved by taking into account the comparative advantages of each of those countries and developing mutually beneficial experience-sharing mechanisms.
53. Clearly defined mandates specific to the situation on the ground, cohesive mission planning and management tools, and sound capability and performance standards contributed significantly to the effectiveness of United Nations peacekeeping operations. Improved training of military, police and civilian personnel was another important element. The existing resources of the United Nations system should be optimized and additional critical capabilities identified and mobilized in order to minimize gaps and improve performance in the field.
54. Peacekeeping was a shared responsibility requiring the ongoing commitment of all stakeholders; the partnership between the Security Council, the General Assembly, the host country, troop- and policecontributing countries and other relevant actors needed unity of purpose and a coordinated effort to identify common priorities, as well as the tools to translate them into practical action in the field. The expertise and field experience of troop- and police-contributing countries should be incorporated into planning and policy-making processes and consideration of ways to protect peacekeeping personnel from safety and security breaches.
55. The establishment of sustainable peace in complex and fragile situations required an integrated yet flexible approach that promoted synergies between peacekeeping and peacebuilding efforts in order to fully address the interlinked issues of security and development; harmonization of international efforts in that area was
8
12-58023
A/C.4/67/SR.19
vital. While his delegation welcomed the increased attention and support given to the peacekeeping role of regional organizations, it strongly believed that the primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security rested with the United Nations and that the role of regional arrangements should be in accordance with Chapter VIII of the Charter. The integration of a gender perspective into all elements of the peacekeeping policy agenda and the continued promotion of women's participation in peacekeeping operations and decision-making processes were also essential. His Government was committed to playing an active role in United Nations peacekeeping activities. It had been participating in several peacekeeping operations and stood ready to increase its role in that regard.
56. Mr. Nwosa (Nigeria) recalled that his country had participated in United Nations peacekeeping operations since its independence in 1960, often at great human and material cost. All States had a shared responsibility for peacekeeping, which remained an important tool for the maintenance of international peace and security. His delegation emphasized the need for sound and timely interaction among the Security Council, the Secretariat and the troop- and policecontributing countries in order to create common ground for the achievement of peacekeeping mandates, as highlighted in the report of the Special Committee (A/66/19). The specific regional circumstances in which conflicts arose made regional and subregional peacekeeping initiatives vital, although primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security continued to rest with the United Nations. Greater attention should also be paid to conflict prevention since resolving crises before they turned into conflicts was more effective and less costly.
57. Without adequate funding, troop-contributing countries would find it extremely difficult to maintain their participation in peacekeeping missions at current levels. His delegation therefore welcomed the conclusion of discussions on the review of the methodology for rates of reimbursement on account of troop costs.
58. Mr. Alcantara Mejia (Dominican Republic) said that four key lessons had been learned since the launch of the first United Nations peacekeeping mission in 1948: effective peacekeeping in conflict areas required peacebuilding measures as well; peacebuilding was fostered by economic development, social justice, functioning national institutions and the rule of law;
peacebuilding was a multidimensional task that required the joint action and commitment of many actors, including international organizations, the Government, civil society, the private sector, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) and the diaspora; and peacebuilding took time.
59. In order to ensure the effectiveness of peacekeeping operations, timely deployment was necessary. According to the August 2000 report of the Panel on United Nations Peace Operations (the “Brahimi Report”) (A/55/305), which was still the main reference for improving United Nations peacekeeping performance, peacekeepers should be on the ground within six weeks to ensure a successful operation. In addition, missions must have clear, viable mandates and must be commanded by officers with experience in the region where they operated. Furthermore, States should consider maintaining on standby, at the regional level, troops that met the requisite training and equipment requirements for deployment in peacekeeping or peacebuilding operations.
60. While the original objective of MINUSTAH had been to prevent conflict, it was also helping Haiti to recover from the aftermath of serious natural disasters that were just as destabilizing as social and political conflict. In addition, it was assuming a peacebuilding role; its efforts to ensure minimum levels of stability, in conjunction with the Haitian authorities, was of particular importance for his country given its geographical proximity to Haiti.
61. The Dominican Republic had provided humanitarian and development assistance to the people of Haiti and had received large numbers of Haitian migrants. The provision of assistance to Haiti was a moral responsibility of the entire international community and should not be left to any one country. At the same time, the work of MINUSTAH, which embodied the will of the international community, could not be completed without national ownership of the reconstruction process. Bearing in mind that such ownership was always essential to the success of peacekeeping operations, his delegation considered that the case of Haiti, where the necessary levels of security could not be achieved without significant progress in economic development and living conditions, could serve as a model for other missions. MINUSTAH should strengthen its focus on development programmes, which also required donor
12-58023
9
A/C.4/67/SR.19
countries to deliver on their financial commitments. The Dominican Republic reiterated its readiness to play an active role in international assistance mechanisms and in other mutually agreed areas of cooperation through the Dominican-Haitian joint commission.
62. Mr. Mai Dawa (Niger) said that as the African continent was one of the main theatres for United Nations peacekeeping operations, the African Union had sought to strengthen crisis management ownership by African stakeholders, as reflected in its growing engagement in peacekeeping operations and that of subregional organizations such as ECOWAS. However, the financial and logistical constraints facing those organizations limited the extent of their engagement. While the United Nations was implementing many capacity-building initiatives in order to remedy that situation, he hoped that its partnership with African regional and subregional organizations would be further strengthened.
63. Despite many difficulties, his Government contributed to United Nations peacekeeping operations a significant number of troops, police personnel and observers, several of whom had recently lost their lives in the line of duty. His delegation hoped that a reform of United Nations peacekeeping missions would result in a level of resources consistent with the scale of their mandates, which, moreover, should be clearly defined. In that regard, the work of the Special Committee and the recommendations of the New Horizon initiative should be given greater importance.
64. Mr. Lembouma (Gabon) paid tribute to the work of all United Nations peacekeepers, particularly those who had lost their lives over the past year, and thanked the troop-contributing countries for their constant commitment to the cause of peace. Peacekeeping operations had significantly contributed to the peace process in Sudan, Liberia, Cote d'Ivoire and elsewhere and he urged the international community to allocate adequate financial, technical and material resources to the various operations in line with realities on the ground. The significant shortfalls in military aviation and communications capacity experienced by some missions were, for example, often attributable to a lack of financial resources. The financing of peacekeeping operations should be made more flexible and the issue of the reimbursement of troop-contributing countries should be better addressed. His delegation welcomed
the establishment of the Senior Advisory Group to examine that issue.
65. It was vital to strengthen triangular cooperation with regional and subregional organizations in order to ensure that crises were resolved as efficiently as possible. The synergies between the United Nations and the African Union that had been exploited in addressing the conflicts in Darfur and in Somalia were a good example of such cooperation. His delegation welcomed the progress made through effective collaboration, especially in Somalia, and encouraged the United Nations to continue its efforts in that regard.
66. The importance of multilingualism in peacekeeping missions should be borne in mind; taking language into account at all levels of the chain of command not only facilitated constructive dialogue with the host country but fostered the climate of trust needed to implement a mission's mandate. His delegation welcomed the progress achieved in that regard. Lastly, conflict prevention, which was much less costly than conflict resolution, should be better integrated into the activities of peacekeeping operations.
67. Mr. Him (Cambodia) commended the Department of Peacekeeping Operations for its successful management of the recent surge in peacekeeping operations, notwithstanding the increasing complexity of mandates and the dangerous conditions in the field. Cambodia had benefited from the presence of a peacekeeping mission in the 1990s and had contributed some 1,500 personnel to seven United Nations peacekeeping missions since 2006. It had established a national peacekeeping centre in 2006, hosted a number of annual multinational peacekeeping training exercises and prepared and trained reserve peacekeepers for possible future peacekeeping requirements.
68. His delegation had followed closely the reforms under way in the Department of Peacekeeping Operations with a view to improving the Organization's capacity to respond effectively to conflict situations. Those reforms allowed the United Nations to meet the challenges posed by the surge in demand for such operations and helped its peacekeepers to better protect civilians under threat, promote human rights, impose the rule of law and implement rapid-impact protection to ensure postconflict stabilization and rehabilitation.
10
12-58023
A/C.4/67/SR.19
69. The primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security rested with the United Nations. The role played by regional arrangements should be in accordance with the Charter and the guiding principles of peacekeeping operations. Women's participation in peacekeeping was of great importance and should be further encouraged.
70. His delegation shared the concerns of many countries regarding the issue of sexual exploitation and abuse in United Nations peacekeeping operations and fully supported the zero tolerance policy. In that regard, it noted the awareness-raising efforts of the Department of Peacekeeping Operations and endorsed the United Nations Comprehensive Strategy on Assistance and Support to Victims of Sexual Exploitation and Abuse by United Nations Staff and Related Personnel.
71. Lastly, his delegation paid tribute to all those who had served and continued to serve in peacekeeping operations, both at Headquarters and on the ground. It was deeply grateful to those peacekeepers who had made the ultimate sacrifice and expressed its sympathy to the members of their families.
72. Ms. Adhikari (Nepal) said that, as a major troop contributor, her country attached great importance to all aspects of peacekeeping operations, especially the need to strengthen their efficiency in the face of growing challenges and complexities. Peacekeeping had become the most important multilateral tool for maintaining international peace and security and was constantly evolving in line with new requirements. Multidimensional operations now involved not only military and police personnel, but also civilian experts working on a range of social and judicial issues. The increased demands illustrated the growing confidence in the United Nations while highlighting the many challenges facing the international community. Since continued reform was needed to make peacekeeping operations more efficient, her delegation called for the effective implementation of the global field support strategy and the New Horizon initiative.
73. Responsibility for peacekeeping, from mandate design to exit, must be shared by the General Assembly, the Security Council, the contributing and host countries, regional partners and the Secretariat. The Security Council must ensure the coherence of peacekeeping strategies, which should be aimed at stabilizing security, supporting national political
processes and creating an environment for economic development. Consultations with troop- and policecontributing countries when preparing mandates must be institutionalized and field support strengthened, along with the ability to respond to demands for civilian capacity.
74. Building the capacity of peacekeepers must be prioritized and mission-oriented pre-deployment training should be provided to troops and police. Effective command in the field and sound intelligence were critical to the successful implementation of peacekeeping mandates. The security of peacekeepers should be given due priority, their morale and dignity should be maintained through appropriate incentive structures, and death and disability claims should be settled in a timely manner.
75. Nepal, currently the sixth largest troop contributor, had provided over 100,000 peacekeepers to United Nations peacekeeping operations and was committed to further enhancing its contribution in the future, bearing in mind the need for gender balance. The inclusive nature of the Secretariat and field missions would also be enhanced by providing equitable opportunities for the appointment to senior positions of individuals from troop- and policecontributing countries. Lastly, she paid tribute to the peacekeepers, including more than 60 from Nepal, who had sacrificed their lives.
76. Mr. Latreche (Algeria) said that United Nations peacekeeping missions were usually deployed in order to stabilize the situation, support the implementation of Security Council resolutions and provide the Secretariat, the Security Council and the international community with independent information regarding conditions on the ground. Although the promotion and protection of human rights had been identified by the United Nations as a critical component for achieving sustainable peace, the United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara (MINURSO) remained one of the rare peacekeeping operations that did not include a human rights monitoring component and all efforts to rectify that situation had met with arguments based more on realpolitik than on international legality, ignoring the principles and practices of the United Nations in the area of peacekeeping.
77. While peacekeeping operations were becoming increasingly complex, the discrepancies between their objectives and realities on the ground were widening.
12-58023
11
A/C.4/67/SR.19
That gap must be bridged by providing them with the necessary political support; sufficient human, financial and logistical resources; and clearly defined, achievable mandates. All United Nations peacekeeping operations must be conducted in full conformity with the Charter and the basic principles of consent of the parties, impartiality and non-use of force except in self-defence. More attention should also be given to addressing the root causes of conflicts.
78. Cooperation with regional arrangements should comply with Chapter VIII of the Charter and should not replace the role of the United Nations, which had primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security. While the African Union had demonstrated renewed determination and willingness to deploy peace support operations with a view to sustainable peace and long-term recovery, it faced serious resource, logistical and capacity constraints that hampered the ability of those operations to fulfil their mandates. African peacekeeping capabilities must therefore be strengthened, including through the provision of predictable, sustainable and flexible funding.
79. Mr. Aikawa (Japan), after extending his Government's sympathy to the people of Guatemala following the recent earthquake and to the Americans affected by Hurricane Sandy, said that United Nations peacekeeping operations were one of the most effective instruments for achieving international peace and security. Their role, which had traditionally focused on ceasefire observation, now included responsibility not only for keeping the peace immediately after a conflict, but also for protecting civilians and establishing a foundation for peacebuilding. The evolving role of United Nations peacekeeping meant that a variety of civilian expertise was now required in the areas of public safety and policing, the rule of law, and economic recovery and development. His delegation welcomed progress in strengthening civilian capacities and continued to support the related initiatives led by the Secretariat.
80. Efforts to maximize achievements through the optimal use of available resources were vital. The quality of peacekeeping operations must be improved by strengthening troop morale to prevent misconduct on the ground and enhancing operational performance through a single institutionalized support system. His delegation stood ready to support the Secretariat's leadership on that issue by sharing the internationally
recognized experience of the Japanese Self-Defence Forces in developing good troop morale and building community relations.
81. The financial constraints of Member States must always be borne in mind. His delegation therefore welcomed the Secretariat's efforts to strengthen the efficiency of peacekeeping operations, including logistical support functions. Collective and unified efforts were required of all key actors, including the Department of Peacekeeping Operations, the Department of Field Support, troop- and policecontributing countries, financial contributors, the General Assembly and the Security Council.
82. While the Committee had been unable to find consensus on the report of the Special Committee within the official timeframe, it had ultimately reached agreement and achieved a solid outcome that provided a firm foundation for future discussions. He concluded by paying tribute to all peacekeepers, especially those who had lost their lives, and said that his delegation would seek to uphold the safety of peacekeeping personnel in its efforts to achieve international peace and security.
83. Mr. Dorbes (Observer for the International Committee of the Red Cross) said that, as peacekeeping had moved beyond its traditional role of monitoring peace agreements to encompass such matters as the rule of law, humanitarian assistance and the protection of civilians, a number of new challenges had arisen. Peacekeeping personnel were operating in increasingly difficult and violent environments, and protecting individuals and communities during armed conflicts and other complex emergencies must be a key priority. Although States and the parties to a conflict had primary responsibility for the protection of civilians, the role of peacekeepers as mandated protection personnel was growing. In situations where civilians faced immediate physical threats, peacekeepers could make an invaluable contribution to ensuring their physical safety.
84. Integrated missions with political, military and human rights components, which sometimes encompassed United Nations agencies with humanitarian or protection mandates, could create synergies and ease decision-making regarding the protection of civilians. However, an inherent risk was the blurring of roles and responsibilities, especially between humanitarian work, judicial investigations and the provision of security through an armed presence.
12
12-58023
A/C.4/67/SR.19
Local authorities, armed actors and affected communities must be able to distinguish between the roles of components of integrated United Nations missions, and among the various organizations and groups working in the area of protection. A lack of clarity in that regard could have adverse consequences not only for the components of a particular mission, but for the entire humanitarian sector.
85. Because that issue was of vital importance for independent humanitarian actors, the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) had followed with interest the recent preparation by the Department of Peacekeeping Operations, together with troop- and police-contributing countries, of a conceptual framework to clarify the roles and responsibilities of the various components with regard to the protection of civilians. ICRC welcomed the fact that United Nations peacekeeping missions with mandates to protect civilians were now required to establish protection strategies, which should be formulated in consultation with relevant humanitarian and human rights organizations, and looked forward to intensifying its dialogue with such missions.
86. In 2012, ICRC and the Department of Peacekeeping Operations had held structured discussions on the design and delivery of uniform predeployment and in-mission training for peacekeepers in such areas as international humanitarian law, the use of force and the protection of civilians and had agreed on the need to invest at various levels so that peacekeepers deployed in the field could receive adequate training and equipment.
87. The protection of civilians during armed conflicts was at the core of international humanitarian law. Peacekeepers in situations of armed conflict were considered to be civilians under that law, which also governed the military operations of United Nations forces drawn into such a conflict. Strict adherence to international humanitarian law by the parties, including United Nations forces, would contribute greatly to the protection of civilians.
88. As troop- and police-contributing countries and as members of the United Nations, States must ensure that peacekeeping forces had human resources with the right training and skills to fulfil their mandates effectively. ICRC remained committed to maintaining and further developing its dialogue on respect for international humanitarian law and the protection of civilians with the Department of Peacekeeping Operations and Member States that were actively
involved in peacekeeping operations and policy. It would also continue to collaborate with police- and troop-contributing countries on pre-deployment training.
89. Mr. Hamed (Syrian Arab Republic), speaking in exercise of the right of reply, said that the representative of the Israeli occupation authorities had made false and misleading allegations at the 18th meeting of the Committee in a desperate attempt to conceal the fact that Israel's occupation of the Arab territories was the reason for the peacekeeping missions in the region. It would have been appropriate for the representative, rather than expressing hollow and insincere support for those missions, to announce an end to that occupation so that the peacekeepers could return to their homelands and families in peace.
90. The remarks made by the representative of the Israeli occupation authorities were surprising since Israel held the record for acts of aggression against peacekeeping forces and United Nations premises, including the deliberate targeting of the premises of the Fiji contingent of the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL) in 1996, which had resulted in the deaths of 106 civilians. In addition to its other suspect operations against United Nations forces in South Lebanon, Israel still refused to deliver the maps showing the locations of cluster bombs there despite the fact that several years had elapsed since the end of hostilities in 2006, thereby ensuring further casualties among peacekeepers operating in the region. Incidents involving the abduction of Syrian citizens from the Syrian side of the ceasefire line by Israeli occupation forces had also increased.
91. Lastly, the Israeli occupation authorities, as part of their policy of harassing citizens under occupation and imperilling their livelihood, had recently refused to allow Syrian farmers in the occupied Syrian Golan to transport their harvest to their homeland, Syria. All such violations were reported to the Secretary-General and to the Department of Peacekeeping Operations.
92. Ms. Bouhamidi (Morocco), speaking in exercise of the right of reply, expressed surprise that the representative of Algeria had once again included a reference to the question of Western Sahara through his comments on MINURSO, even though his country claimed to be merely an observer and not a party to that artificial conflict. In response to his comment that MINURSO remained one of the rare United Nations peacekeeping operations that did not include a human rights monitoring component, she noted that the
12-58023
13
A/C.4/67/SR.19
Mission was not exceptional in that regard; it was a simple peacekeeping mission, not a multidimensional operation with a monitoring component. Moreover, its mandate had been established by the Security Council, which, in its resolution 2044 (2012), had welcomed the steps taken by Morocco to promote and protect human rights, including in Western Sahara. In view of its own record, Algeria was in no position to give other Member States lessons in human rights.
93. Mr. Latreche (Algeria), speaking in exercise of the right of reply, said that the Chair should call the representative of Morocco to order since the last part of her statement, on human rights in Algeria, was unrelated to the agenda item under consideration. His delegation had made its remarks because the agenda item, “Comprehensive review of the whole question of peacekeeping operations in all their aspects”, included MINURSO. While it fell to the Security Council to establish the Mission's mandate, the Committee had the responsibility to consider the principles, functioning and work of all peacekeeping operations. It therefore had a duty to discuss MINURSO and to deplore the double standards applied in that case.
94. Ms. Bouhamidi (Morocco), speaking in exercise of the right of reply, said that the Committee was not the place to discuss the mandates of peacekeeping operations on a case-by-case basis; those mandates were established by the Security Council, which was tasked with deciding whether a mission should be simple or multidimensional in nature. The Council had decided that, given the composition of MINURSO and its circumstances, it would not be helpful to include a human rights component.
95. Mr. Latreche (Algeria), speaking in exercise of the right of reply, said that it was unclear why the delegation of Morocco insisted on avoiding the issue, which, from a legal point of view, was subject to discussion by the Committee; perhaps it was because there were no legal arguments to justify the absence of a human rights monitoring component in the mandate of MINURSO. Such a component would allow the mission to provide credible information regarding the real situation on the ground at a time when reports from various NGOs showed that the most basic human rights of the people of Western Sahara were being violated on a daily basis.
The meeting rose at 6 p.m.
14
12-58023