United Nations
A/C.4/64/SR.28
General Assembly
Sixty-fourth session
Official Records
Distr.: General 13 October 2010
Original: English
Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee)
Summary record of the 28th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Friday, 27 August 2010, at 3 p.m.
Chairman: Mr. Al-Nasser (Chairman) (Qatar)
Contents
Agenda item 5: Election of the officers of the Main Committees
This record is subject to correction. Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Official Records Editing Section, room DC2-750, 2 United Nations Plaza, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
10-49676 (E'
iiiiiwiiii
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session, in a separate corrigendum for each Committee.
A/C.4/64/SR.28
The meeting was called to order at 3.15 p.m.
Agenda item 5: Election of officers of the Main Committees
1. The Chairman recalled that, at its twentyseventh meeting, held on 11 June 2010, following a nomination by the Group of African States, the Committee had elected Mr. Chidyausiku (Zimbabwe) to the office of Chairman for the sixty-fifth session. Since then, Mr. Chidyausiku had completed his tenure as Permanent Representative to the United Nations in New York. The Group of African States had agreed to nominate the new Permanent Representative of Zimbabwe, Mr. Chipaziwa, as Chairman for the forthcoming session. In the absence of further nominations and in accordance with rule 103 of the rules of procedure, he would take it that the Committee wished to elect Mr. Chipaziwa (Zimbabwe) Chairman.
2. Mr. Chipaziwa (Zimbabwe) was elected
Chairman by acclamation.
3. The Chairman said that, in addition, Mr. Flisiuk (Poland) had been nominated by the Group of Eastern European States to replace Mr. Xhoi (Albania) as ViceChairman.
4. Mr. Flisiuk (Poland) was elected Vice-Chairman by acclamation.
5. Mr. Chipaziwa (Zimbabwe) paid tribute to Mr. Al-Nasser and said that he would endeavour to emulate his achievements.
6. The Chairman wished Mr. Chipaziwa every success in his future endeavours.
The meeting rose at 3.20p.m.
2
10-49676