United Nations
A/C.4/69/SR.27
General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
Official Records
Distr.: General 30 June 2015
Original: English
Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee)
Summary record of the 27th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Monday, 15 June 2015, at 4 p.m.
Chair: Mr. Bhattarai (Nepal)
Contents
Agenda item 5: Election of the officers of the Main Committees
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Control Unit (srcorrections@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
15-09806 (E)
in in ii11wrnmwv
A/C.4/69/SR.27
The meeting was called to order at 5.15 p.m.
Agenda item 5: Election of the officers of the Main Committees
1. The Chair said that the meeting had been convened for the purpose of electing the Chair and other members of the Bureau for the seventieth session of the General Assembly.
2. The nomination of Mr. Bowler (Malawi) for the office of Chair had been endorsed by the Group of Asia-Pacific States. In the absence of further nominations, and in accordance with rule 103 of the rules of procedure, he would take it that the Committee wished to elect Mr. Bowler (Malawi) Chair.
3. Mr. Bowler (Malawi) was elected Chair by acclamation.
4. Mr. Bowler (Malawi) said that he looked forward to working with the members of the Bureau and the secretariat and counted on the support of all delegations to ensure the successful completion of the work of the Committee.
5. The Chair said that in accordance with rule 103 of the rules of procedure, the nominations of Mr. AlJarralah (Kuwait), Mr. Medan (Croatia) and Mr. Proano (Ecuador) for the offices of Vice-Chair had been endorsed by the Group of Asia -Pacific States, the Group of Eastern European States and the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States, respectively, and that the nomination of Ms. Ferry (Monaco) for the office of Rapporteur had been endorsed by the Group of Western European and Other States.
6. Mr. AlJarralah (Kuwait), Mr. Medan (Croatia) and Mr. Proano (Ecuador) were elected Vice-Chairs and Ms. Ferry (Monaco) was elected Rapporteur, by acclamation.
The meeting rose at 5.25 p.m.
2/2
15-09806