United Nations
A/C.4/68/SR.1
General Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
Official Records
Distr.: General 9 October 2013
Original: English
Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee)
Summary record of the 1st meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Tuesday, 1 October 2013, at 3 p.m.
Temporary Chair: Mr. Ashe (President of the General Assembly) . . . (Antigua and Barbuda)
Contents
Agenda item 5: Election of the officers of the Main Committees
13-49309 (E
iiiiiiiiiii
This record is subject to correction. Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Control Unit (srcorrections@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
A/C.4/68/SR.1
The meeting was called to order at 3.15 p.m.
Agenda item 5: Election of the officers of the Main Committees
1. The Temporary Chair said that, in accordance with rule 99 (a) of the rules of procedure, the meeting had been convened for the purpose of electing the Chair and other members of the Bureau of the Committee for the sixty-eighth session of the General Assembly.
2. Mr. Garcia Gonzalez (El Salvador) had been nominated by the Latin American and Caribbean States for the office of Chair. In the absence of further nominations, and in accordance with rule 103 of the rules of procedure, he would take it that the Committee wished to elect Mr. Garcia Gonzalez (El Salvador) Chair.
3. Mr. Garcia Gonzalez (El Salvador) was elected Chair by acclamation.
4. Mr. Garcia Gonzalez (El Salvador) assured the Committee that he was ready to work with all groups, States and stakeholders concerned with its endeavours.
5. The Temporary Chair said that Mr. Motanyane (Lesotho), Ms. Rafti (Cyprus) and Mr. Santillo (Italy) had been nominated by the African States, the AsiaPacific States and the Western European and other States, respectively, for the office of Vice-Chair.
6. Mr. Motanyane (Lesotho), Ms. Rafti (Cyprus) and Mr. Santillo (Italy) were elected Vice-Chairs by acclamation.
7. The Temporary Chair said that the election of the Rapporteur would be held at a later date.
The meeting rose at 3.25p.m.
2/2
13-49309