United Nations
A/C.4/71/SR.25
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
Official Records
Distr.: General 24 July 2017
Original: English
Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee)
Summary record of the 25th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Tuesday, 11 July 2017, at 3 p.m.
Chair: Mr. Drobnjak (Croatia)
Contents
Agenda item 51: Comprehensive review of the whole question of peacekeeping operations in all their aspects (continued)
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Management Section (dms@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
17-11816 (E)
in i in ii i mwmwv
Please recycle
A/C.4/71/SR.25
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda item 51: Comprehensive review of the whole question of peacekeeping operations in all their aspects (continued) (A/71/19; A/C.4/71/L.18)
1. The Chair recalled that the Committee had held a general debate on agenda item 51 in October and November 2016. The Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations had adopted its report (A/71/19) at its 2017 session. The report was now before the Committee at the resumed session.
2. Mr. Grant (Canada), speaking on behalf of the Rapporteur of the Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations and introducing its report (A/71/19), said that the Special Committee had met from 21 February to 17 March 2017. After the general debate, the Working Group of the Whole had met to discuss and finalize the proposals, recommendations and conclusions of the Special Committee.
Draft resolution A/C.4/71/L.18: Comprehensive review of the whole question ofpeacekeeping operations in all their aspects
3. Mr. Grant (Canada), speaking on behalf of the Rapporteur of the Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations, introduced the draft resolution, which was based on similar resolutions adopted in recent years. In accordance with the draft resolution, the General Assembly would endorse the proposals, recommendations and conclusions contained in the report of the Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations, and would urge Member States, the Secretariat and relevant organs of the United Nations system to take all necessary steps to implement them.
4. Ms. Sharma (Secretary of the Committee), presenting a statement of programme budget implications in accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, said that under the terms of paragraph 2 of the draft resolution, the General Assembly would endorse the decision of the Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations, contained in its report, for an informal working group to be established to examine options to update the annual report of the Committee and its corresponding working methods. With regard to the request contained in paragraph 2, it was understood that all issues related to the meetings of the proposed informal working group were yet to be determined. Accordingly, in the absence of modalities for the meetings, it was not possible to estimate the potential cost implications of the requirements for meetings and documentation. Once the modalities, format and organization of the
meetings were decided upon, the Secretary-General would submit the relevant costs of those requirements in accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly. Furthermore, the dates of the meetings would be determined in consultation with the Department of General Assembly and Conference Management. Accordingly, adoption of draft resolution A/C.4/71/L.18 would not give rise to any budgetary implications under the programme budget for the biennium 2016-2017.
5. Mr. Maleki (Islamic Republic of Iran) said that while the words “Special Committee” in paragraph 2 of the draft resolution clearly referred to the Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations, the mention of a special committee in paragraph 6, which requested that committee to report to the General Assembly, was ambiguous. Although only the Special Political and Decolonization Committee reported to the General Assembly, every mention of a special committee in the draft resolution prior to paragraph 6 had clearly referred to the Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations. He therefore wondered how the ambiguity in the language of the draft text might be dispelled.
6. The Chair said that he understood the reference to a special committee in paragraph 6 of the draft resolution to refer to the Special Political and Decolonization Committee. Moreover, the language in question was identical to that in the versions of the draft resolution adopted in recent years. The Committee could either retain the current language as standard or orally amend paragraph 6 to read “Special Political and Decolonization Committee”.
7. The meeting was suspended at 3.15 p.m. and resumed at 3.25 p.m.
8. The Chair said that, contrary to what he had previously believed, the special committee referred to in paragraph 6 of the draft resolution was the Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations. However, amending the language would mean that the resolution could not be adopted at the current meeting, given that delegations would be required to consult their capitals prior to adopting a draft resolution containing amended language. He therefore proposed that the Committee should adopt the draft resolution in its current form and allow the incoming Chair and Bureau of the Committee to address the matter of unclear language in paragraph 6 at the Committee's forthcoming session if they found it necessary to do so, noting that the paragraph in question was identical to that in previous versions of the draft resolution, all of which had been adopted by consensus.
2/3
17-11816
A/C.4/71/SR.25
9. Mr. Maleki (Islamic Republic of Iran) said that his delegation was in favour of adopting the draft resolution in its current form and relaying the message regarding its ambiguous language to the incoming Chair.
10. The Chair said that he took it that the Committee wished to adopt the draft resolution in its current form.
11. Draft resolution A/C.4/71/L.18 was adopted.
The meeting rose at 3.30 p.m.
17-11816
3/3