United Nations
A/C.4/66/SR.24
General Assembly
Sixty-sixth session
Official Records
Distr.: General 5 December 2012
Original: English
Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee)
Summary record of the 24th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Tuesday, 4 September 2012, at 11.30 a.m.
Chair: Mr. Kelly (Vice-Chair) (Ireland)
Contents
Agenda item 5: Election of the officers of the Main Committees
This record is subject to correction. Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Official Records Editing Section, room DC2-750, 2 United Nations Plaza, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
12-36504 (E
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session, in a separate corrigendum for each Committee.
A/C.4/66/SR.24
In the absence of Ms. Miculescu (Romania), Mr. Kelly (Ireland), Vice-Chair, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 11.30 a.m.
Agenda item 5: Election of the officers of the Main Committees
1. The Chair said that the meeting had been convened to elect the Chair and other members of the Bureau for the sixty-seventh session.
2. Mr. Messone (Gabon) had been nominated by the African States for the office of Chair. In the absence of further nominations and in accordance with rule 103 of the rules of procedure, he would take it that the Committee wished to elect Mr. Messone (Gabon) Chair.
3. Mr. Messone (Gabon) was elected Chair by acclamation.
4. Mr. Messone (Gabon) said that he was honoured to have been elected. He was confident that the Committee would continue working to find lasting solutions to the important issues on its agenda.
5. The Chair said that Ms. Andamo (Thailand), Ms. Borland (Belize) and Mr. Felopoulos (Greece) had been nominated by the Asia-Pacific States, the Latin American and Caribbean States and the Western European and Other States, respectively, for the offices of Vice-Chairs, and that Mr. Ismaili (the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia) had been nominated by the Eastern European States for the office of Rapporteur.
6. Ms. Andamo (Thailand), Ms. Borland (Belize) and Mr. Felopoulos (Greece) were elected Vice-Chairs, and Mr. Ismaili (the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia) was elected Rapporteur, by acclamation.
The meeting rose at 11.35 a.m.
2
12-36504