United Nations
A/c .4/65/SR.14
General Assembly
Sixty-fifth session
Official Records
Distr.: General 10 December 2010
Original: English
Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee)
Summary record (partial)* of the 14th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Friday, 22 October 2010. at 10 a.m.
Chairperson: Mr. Chipaziwa (Zimbabwe)
Contents
Agenda item 53: Comprehensive review of the whole question of peacekeeping operations in all their aspects
* No summary record was prepared for the middle portion of the meeting.
This record is subject to correction. Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Official Records Editing Section, room DC2-750, 2 United Nations Plaza, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session, in a separate corrigendum for each Committee.
10-59840 (E)
lllllllllllllllllllllllll
A/C.4/65/SR.14
The meeting was called to order at 10.20 a.m.
Agenda item 53: Comprehensive review of the whole question of peacekeeping operations in all their aspects
1. Mr. Le Roy (Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations) said that peacekeeping had proved to be one of the most effective tools available to the United Nations to assist host countries navigate the difficult path from conflict to peace. The international community's collective task was to preserve, continue to improve and strengthen its qualities and address its weaknesses.
2. Recalling the short- and medium-term priorities of the New Horizon agenda, which focused on achieving greater consensus around crucial policy issues, including the peacebuilding-peacekeeping nexus and the protection of civilians; generating adequate capabilities for multidimensional peacekeeping; making the field support machinery more efficient and cost-effective through the Global Field Support Strategy; and strengthening mission planning, management and oversight - he said that events over the previous year had demonstrated their relevance.
3. Missions in Chad, Darfur and the Democratic Republic of the Congo had struggled to deliver on their mandates, especially with respect to the protection of civilians. They had been hampered by limited consent and differences within the international community regarding strategy and adequate capabilities and support structures, which had prevented them from offering robust response to the situation they encountered. In Timor-Leste, Liberia and Cote d'Ivoire, peacekeeping operations had focused on planning the progressive handover of security responsibilities to national authorities and on the transition to longer-term peace consolidation and development, with the support of the United Nations and outside actors. Mandates of peacekeeping missions continued to emphasize early peacebuilding tasks, including in the areas of basic safety and security, political processes, institutionbuilding, governance and economic revitalization, since peace could not be maintained without progress in all those areas. Indeed, a strategic and integrated approach to critical peacebuilding objectives in post-conflict situations was vital.
4. The international community's response to the crisis in Haiti after the January 2010 earthquake had
revealed the critical need for crisis planning and decision-making, contingency arrangements and rapidly deployable reserve capacities, flexible and speedy support arrangements and effective cooperation and interoperability with partners.
5. Withdrawal or drawdown had emerged as a new challenge to peacekeeping over the past year. In Chad, after the Government had called for the withdrawal of the United Nations Mission in the Central African Republic and Chad (MINURCAT), special attention had been paid to the protection of refugees and internally displaced persons and to the provision of humanitarian assistance in the eastern part of the country. In the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the Government and the United Nations had agreed on a gradual drawdown of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUSCO), based on joint assessments of conditions on the ground. More traditional peacekeeping operations such as the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL), the United Nations Disengagement Observer Force (UNDOF) and the United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara (MINURSO) continued to play an important role in support of peace and security.
6. Dialogue among the Security Council, troop- and police-contributing countries and the Secretariat, had helped to shape the common agenda and strengthen the peacekeeping partnership. Good progress had been made on developing a strategic framework to guide development of mission-wide strategies to protect civilians, as requested by the Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations. Work had also begun on the mapping of resources and capability requirements for the implementation of protection mandates and the development of training modules. A strategy for critical early peacebuilding tasks for peacekeepers was under development as well as a trend analysis on the inclusion of peacebuilding tasks in peacekeeping mandates. Progress had also been made on the development of the Strategic Doctrinal Framework for international police peacekeeping. A global effort had been launched to increase the number of female police peacekeepers to 20 per cent of the deployed strength by 2014.
7. In order to develop a comprehensive capabilitydriven approach, the Departments of Peacekeeping Operations and Field Support were focusing on three areas: developing guidance and capability standards;
2
10-59840
A/C.4/65/SR.14
generating and sustaining critical resources; and strengthening training. The standing police capacity had been expanded and a standing justice and corrections capacity had been established, in addition to a roster of security sector reform experts. To ensure coherence, the Departments were working closely with the Peacebuilding Support Office regarding the civilian capacities review. The Secretariat was also looking into how to address the Member States' request to increase its capacity-building coordination role. The effectiveness and interoperability of peacekeeping components would be enhanced through common baseline operational standards for civilian and uniformed capabilities.
8. Referring to the global field support strategy he said that it would transform service delivery to the field by adapting to the requirements of present-day operations. Thus, field support would become more predictable, professional and flexible while ensuring cost efficiencies and transparency. With the aim of strengthening planning and oversight, a more comprehensive consultative process between the troop and police-contributing countries, the Security Council and the Secretariat had been developed.
9. With the numbers of military, police and civilian staff in the field falling for the first time in a decade, United Nations peacekeeping had entered a phase of consolidation. Indeed, MONUSCO currently had 1,650 fewer troops, while MINURCAT would be closed down by the end of the year. However, challenges faced were not diminishing; on the contrary, the political complexity of missions and the range of their mandates, including on the civilian side, remained very broad. United Nations support for the referendums in the Sudan and for the Comprehensive Peace Agreement and elections in Cote d'Ivoire, for example, would pose challenges in both planning and additional capability requirements. In his view, United Nations policing was one of the specialized capabilities that would be in high demand in future, reflecting the growth in complex peacekeeping operations in general and the increased complexity of the Security Council's policing mandates.
10. The challenges described at the launch of the New Horizon Initiative remained relevant. The global scarcity of resources had become more acute. Financial and other national constraints had, in several cases, led to the withdrawal of crucial mission capabilities,
including military utility helicopters from some of the most complex operations.
11. Referring to sexual violence against civilians as a tactic of war, he noted that the horrendous mass rapes of hundreds of civilians in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo were not isolated incidents. In that regard, when peacekeepers were deployed amid ongoing conflict across vast areas, it could not be expected that missions would achieve blanket protection of civilians. However, missions were expected to use all means at their disposal - military, police and civilian - to anticipate, address and respond to such threats.
12. In some host countries, such as Darfur in the Sudan and Chad, limited consent by the parties to the conflict and restrictions on operations had hampered the ability of peacekeeping operations to effectively implement their peacekeeping mandate.
13. The complex threats to peace and security required cohesive and effective responses from a united international community. Accordingly, his Department would continue to ensure that the further development of the peacekeeping partnership took into account work in areas such as prevention, mediation and peacebuilding, which were mutually reinforcing. On the ground, since the political, security and peacebuilding challenges were interrelated and needed to be addressed through a common strategy, his Department would continue to cooperate with regional organizations to ensure that the fullest use was made of regional knowledge and expertise in the promotion of international peace and security.
14. Since peacekeeping mandates had become more complex and interaction with the local populations had increased, the Organization would have to become better at communicating both with the authorities and the population of host countries as to what peacekeeping could and could not achieve.
15. The current phase of consolidation, could be used to make progress in the four reform priority areas identified, including with respect to the Global Field Support Strategy and the capability-driven approach. While he was aware of the financial constraints facing the international community and of the high cost of peacekeeping, he wished to reassure Member States that the cost of peacekeeping was minute when compared to global defence spending. Peacekeeping also shared the international burden of addressing
10-59840
3
A/C.4/65/SR.14
conflict and enabled war-shattered economies and countries to rebuild.
16. Ms. Malcorra (Under-Secretary-General for Field Support), noting that the Organization had recently suffered several tragedies that served as an ongoing reminder of the dangers and risks of peacekeeping, said that she wished to pay tribute to those who had made the ultimate sacrifice in the service of peace. The Department of Field Support, which worked closely with the Departments of Peacekeeping and Political Affairs, the Peacebuilding Support Office and the Department of Management, operated in an extremely dynamic global environment. Her Department, which provided support for the full spectrum of field missions, had, in anticipation of the January 2011 referendum in the Sudan, increased its logistical and technical support and was deploying more than 500 additional staff. It was establishing a presence at State and country level that mirrored what the Referendum Commission would do and was building bases in the deep field to accommodate electoral staff and police in support of the referendum. It had provided logistical support for elections in Cote d'Ivoire, Afghanistan and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Darfur remained a high priority.
17. In Haiti, a 24-hour call centre had been opened to identify and repatriate the remains and provide assistance to the families of those who had perished in the earthquake, as well as administrative support to recovery and reconstitution operations, along with support for the Government through the provision of warehouses and tents. That was in addition to providing extra military and police units and support for the upcoming elections.
18. The Department had assisted in the transition of two special political missions into integrated peacebuilding entities in the Central African Republic and Guinea-Bissau. In Burundi, the special political mission that it supported was being downsized following successful legislative elections. Its operations in Chad would be closed down by the end of 2010. In Somalia, the Department continued to partner with the African Union in support of its operation - the African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM).
19. Turning to the global field support strategy, she said that it was designed to expedite and improve support for peacekeeping, including early peacebuilding, while achieving greater efficiencies and economies of scale and improving the safety and living conditions of
staff; it should help to ensure that appropriations were used wisely while improving the quality of support provided to missions.
20. The Department was proceeding on schedule with the development of phase one of the modularization project. Effective modularization would support greater predictability of support readiness, costs, risks, quality, skills, deliverables and the achievement of programme objectives. The findings of the first informal workshop conducted with representatives of the Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations had been incorporated into the project plans and guidelines. Future work would concentrate on the operational and technical aspects of camp design and deployment; Member States were accordingly encouraged to send subject matter experts to the second informal workshop in November 2010.
21. Referring to the regional service centres, established to consolidate back-office administrative and support functions from geographically grouped field missions, she said that consolidation was under way and was being linked to the political and operational priorities of peacekeeping missions in the regions. The transfer of such functions would create economies of scale by consolidating selected functions in a shared facility. Work was also under way on the standard resourcing model, which would introduce a simplified financial procedure to allow an increase in working capital.
22. The Department's approach to human resources management was in line with the Secretary-General's reform initiatives and took into account service at remote field locations in increasingly insecure conditions. In that regard, she urged the Committee to carefully consider the Secretary-General's proposals intended to address the gaps in the compensation framework and provide incentives for seeking assignments to non-family missions where staff members, particularly single mothers, could not take their families.
23. Claims for death and disability incurred by police- and troop-contributing countries were being processed more quickly, although more could be done to resolve claims to the satisfaction of all parties.
24. While great strides had been made with regard to women's involvement in peacekeeping missions, much still remained to be done to fulfil the terms of Security Council resolution 1325 (2000) on women, peace and
4
10-59840
A/C.4/65/SR.14
security adopted 10 years previously. For example, gender balance among civilian personnel remained out of reach and the Department would make further efforts to increase the representation of female staff, including by introducing flexible working arrangements and improving the quality of accommodations in field missions.
25. The conduct and discipline of peacekeeping personnel remained an issue of concern. She continued to maintain a close dialogue with representatives of troop- and police-contributing countries to ensure that allegations of misconduct were promptly addressed. While allegations of sexual exploitation and abuse appeared to have decreased during the current year, it was disheartening to observe that allegations relating to the most serious types of offences, such as rape or sexual relations with minors, remained high. In order to enhance transparency in its reporting to Member States, the Department had launched a new conduct and discipline website to provide critical data on allegations of sexual exploitation and abuse.
26. The Department was accountable to Member States for the quality and cost-effectiveness of its results. Recognizing that greater efforts were needed to align accountability with responsibility and authority, the Department of Field Support was working with the Department of Management to ensure that the authority that was delegated to managers in field missions and in all areas of resource management was commensurate with their responsibilities and accountability.
27. In conclusion, she noted that the Global Field Support Strategy represented a fundamental transformation of how the Department delivered its services. It not only required the Department to give equal importance to ensuring effective oversight and responsible stewardship during the full lifespan of a mission, but also demanded close collaboration between the General Assembly and the different elements of the Secretariat in the field and at Headquarters, while retaining close links with troop- and policecontributing countries and enhancing communications.
28. The public part of the meeting was suspended at 11.10 a.m. and resumed at 12.30p.m.
29. Mr. Chabi (Morocco), speaking on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement, said that United Nations peacekeeping was at a crossroads, its scale and complexity having reached levels that posed serious challenges and overstretched capacities. In that regard,
it was necessary to abide by the guiding principles of United Nations peacekeeping: the consent of the parties, non-use of force except in self-defence and impartiality. The principles of sovereign equality, political independence, territorial integrity of all States and non-intervention in domestic matters should also be maintained.
30. From the outset, peacekeeping operations must be provided, with political support, optimal human, financial and logistical resources, and clearly defined and achievable mandates and exit strategies. They should not be used as a substitute for addressing the root causes of conflicts, which must be dealt with in a coordinated and comprehensive manner. To optimize effectiveness, the experience of troop-contributing countries should be factored into the policymaking process; indeed such countries should be involved in all aspects and at all stages of United Nations peacekeeping operations.
31. At the most recent session of the Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations, the Non-Aligned Movement had proposed the development of triangular cooperation between the Security Council, the Secretariat and the troop-contributing countries, and looked forward to a more focused debate on options for a more structured dialogue.
32. United Nations peacekeeping could not continue to be supported by only a portion of the membership. All developed countries - members of the Security Council in particular - should share the burden. In that regard, the Secretariat should develop effective outreach strategies geared towards aspiring troopcontributing countries and former troop-contributing countries.
33. Peacekeeping and peacebuilding were mutually reinforcing processes that should not be perceived separately. Effective peacekeeping must make full use of peacebuilding action during the early planning stages and a basis must be laid down for lasting socio-economic development. Early advice from and engagement by the Peacebuilding Commission, international financial institutions and development partners would ensure early and consistent peacebuilding and a sustained engagement beyond the life of the peacekeeping mission. Other success factors included national ownership of the activities and having a specific plan for each context, developed in
10-59840
5
A/C.4/65/SR.14
coordination with the national authorities and other actors.
34. The increase in peacebuilding functions would increase requirements for civilian personnel. That in turn entailed challenges including the provision of specific training and a sound recruitment process. The success of the Global Field Support Strategy would depend on close consultations between the Secretariat and Member States. Progress was needed in the critical areas of modularization, human resources management, procurement and service centres. The troop-contributing countries were ready to share their expertise by participating in the development of modules to ensure that service packages met their needs in the field. With regard to human resources management, there was a need to provide United Nations personnel with clarity in terms of career management, since personnel retention was a serious issue that had to be addressed to ensure that excellence and quality remained the defining attributes of United Nations personnel.
35. While integration was the key to success in peacekeeping operations, it remained a distant goal for many missions. Adequate training needed to be provided to senior mission leadership in order to ensure effective interaction among the various components of the mission. An integrated mission required concerted efforts by all elements of the United Nations system to achieve a shared understanding of the mandates and functions of the various elements of the Organization's presence at country level, which would then maximize effectiveness. The Non-Aligned Movement emphasized the need for a final assessment of the Integrated Mission Planning Process.
36. Primary responsibility for the protection of civilians fell to the host country; success in that regard required a holistic approach, encompassing the provision of timely and adequate resources, logistical support and training, as well as well-defined and achievable mandates. The Non-Aligned Movement noted the Secretariat's willingness to introduce scenario-based training on the protection of civilians for senior mission leadership, but stressed that the gaps in terms of enablers for mobility assets and rapid response equipment needed to be dealt with effectively. The Secretariat should submit proposals for improving the ability of existing missions to respond to situations that adversely affected civilians.
37. The fact that United Nations peacekeeping operations were under United Nations command and control required specific training across all operational aspects. While emphasizing the shared responsibility for the training of personnel, the Movement called for more engagement from the Secretariat to support the activities of the regional and national training centres in troop- and police-contributing countries. Experienced troop-contributing countries could provide their expertise to emerging troop-contributing countries, with the involvement of the Secretariat in order to ensure the coherence and efficiency of such assistance.
38. The primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security rested with the United Nations and the role of regional arrangements should be in accordance with Chapter VIII of the Charter. The Non-Aligned Movement supported continuing efforts to strengthen African peacekeeping capabilities and recommended an enhanced partnership between the United Nations and the African Union.
39. The Movement attached great importance to the safety of United Nations peacekeepers and remained gravely concerned about the precarious security environment prevailing in many peacekeeping missions. The issue of reimbursements on account of the death or disability of peacekeepers remained a source of concern for many troop-contributing countries. The Movement called upon the Secretariat to proceed with the payment of compensation for all cases of death and disability sustained in the service of the United Nations, unless such death or disability were self-inflicted or the result of gross negligence. The amount of outstanding reimbursements owed to troopcontributing countries was also of concern, and might adversely affect their ability to sustain their participation.
40. In closing, he paid tribute to those peacekeepers who had given their lives while serving the cause of peace.
41. Mr. Grauls (Belgium) speaking on behalf of the European Union; the candidate countries Croatia, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Turkey; the stabilization and association process countries and potential candidates Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Serbia; and, in addition, Armenia, Georgia, the Republic of Moldova and Ukraine, said that the main challenge facing United Nations peacekeeping operations was to ensure that the gaps
6
10-59840
A/C.4/65/SR.14
between needs, expectations and performance were minimized. The European Union actively supported United Nations peacekeeping operations, particularly in Africa, where it had deployed 24 military and civilian operations since 2003. Given the complexity of current peacekeeping operations, it was important to further develop partnerships with a wide range of organizations and to strengthen coordination mechanisms between the United Nations and regional actors in crisis management. The European Union encouraged and supported the efforts of the African Union, including through the ongoing bilateral dialogue.
42. Considerable effort had already been made to improve peacekeeping; all parties must work to fully implement decisions already taken. The New Horizon Initiative launched by the Secretariat in 2009 was an essential framework for further developing and enhancing United Nations peacekeeping and provided the basis for building a renewed political consensus on the strategic context of peacekeeping. The European Union strongly believed that the reform process should continue, and it looked forward to analysing and discussing the recently published first progress report. The European Union strongly supported a number of important processes currently under way. The development and implementation of the Global Field Support Strategy were of strategic importance. The European Union would support the further elaboration of the key components of the Strategy to ensure that the envisaged changes would lead to the expected results and efficiency gains.
43. The concept of modularization should provide a solid basis for faster deployments and an increased level of flexibility in the field. The European Union recognized the importance of a smooth and effective implementation of the capability-driven approach and looked forward to the outcome of the civilian capacities review. It welcomed the strengthening of police and civilian capacities, including in the area of security sector reform and rule of law, and the efforts to develop a more clearly defined policy and guidance for international police peacekeeping. In addition, it encouraged the ongoing work aimed at improving the planning and oversight of missions.
44. The European Union saw room for improvement in a number of areas. Firstly, improvement was needed in the area of protection of civilians. Thanks to the work conducted within the United Nations, including
in the Fourth Committee, there was an increasing common understanding of the concept of protection of civilians in situations of armed conflict. The report of the Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations contained important recommendations, and the European Union supported their swift implementation. Protection of civilians was first and foremost the responsibility of national Governments; however, peacekeeping operations had an important role to play in support of their hosts so as to ensure that civilians were protected from violent conflict. The adoption of Security Council resolution 1894 (2009) was an essential development and underlined the importance of ensuring that the issue was properly addressed in the mandates for peacekeeping operations. It was important to achieve recognition that the protection of civilians was a mission-wide task and not simply the physical protection of civilians by military forces. The European Union continued to support the development of guidance and training for peacekeepers on how to implement their mandates effectively. In response to Security Council resolution 1894 (2009) and as an expression of its firm commitment to that issue, the European Union had recently updated its 2003 guidelines on the protection of civilians in European Union-led crisis management operations. Increased attention had also been paid to the role of peacekeepers in preventing and responding to sexual and genderbased violence. The European Union welcomed the inventory of good practices and encouraged the United Nations to continue its efforts to improve its capacity in that area.
45. The recent atrocities in the Democratic Republic of the Congo were a terrible reminder of the need to improve protection of civilians, especially women and children. In addition, the European Union considered the tenth anniversary of the adoption of Security Council resolution 1325 (2000) as an important occasion to redouble efforts to ensure that women were protected from the effects of conflict and empowered to participate fully in conflict resolution. It hoped that use of global indicators to measure progress on women's protection and participation in areas affected by armed conflict would enhance the United Nations response. It welcomed the creation of the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women) and recognized the important work of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General on Sexual Violence in Conflict. The European Union also welcomed the recommendations
10-59840
7
A/C.4/65/SR.14
of the Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations regarding the monitoring and reporting mechanism on children and armed conflict.
46. Secondly, attention should be paid to developing a robust approach to peacekeeping, as initially introduced by the Brahimi report. The European Union believed that the requirement for peacekeepers to act robustly in defence of their mandate was consistent with the principles of United Nations peacekeeping. There should be no confusion between a robust approach to peacekeeping and peace enforcement. As acknowledged in the report of the latest session of the Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations, it was necessary to intensify the dialogue on ways and means to enhance the effectiveness of peacekeeping missions, focusing on addressing the requirements for enabling them to deter threats to the implementation of mandates, the safety and security of personnel and ongoing peace processes. Peacekeeping missions must have the mandate, capabilities and determination of the mission's leadership to deter spoilers, criminals and destructive elements.
47. Thirdly, the relationship between peacekeeping and peacebuilding must be clearly recognized. Peacekeepers must be able to contribute in the early phases of peacebuilding to overall stability by helping national Governments develop their peacebuilding objectives, backed by international partners. They must be able to provide logistical support and a secure environment within which national and international actors could implement peacebuilding tasks. The European Union supported the work of the Peacebuilding Commission, welcomed the report on the review process of the Peacebuilding Commission and looked forward to the implementation of its recommendations.
48. The European Union saw room for improvements in the work of the Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations and noted with satisfaction that the issue was reflected in the report of the 2010 session (A/64/19, para. 228). The European Union was fully supportive of efforts to commence an informal dialogue to improve the work of the Special Committee; areas that might be of particular importance in that regard included the role of the Secretariat, ways to improve the effectiveness of the report and working methods of the Special Committee. The European Union was looking forward to an in-depth discussion with all delegations in order to
achieve real progress on the issue by the end of the coming session of the Special Committee.
49. The European Union recognized the role of all those serving in United Nations missions and honoured the sacrifices of those who had paid the ultimate price in that service. Utmost attention must be paid to the safety and security of United Nations staff. Substantial challenges lay ahead, but the Organization had improved its capacity to meet those challenges. The process that had begun with the Brahimi report had contributed immensely to the endeavours over the last decade. The recommendations from the Brahimi process would continue to be of relevance, but there was also a need for a new platform as the new decade began. The New Horizon Initiative provided that platform and should provide guidance during the next session of the Special Committee.
50. Mr. Errazuriz (Chile), speaking on behalf of the Rio Group, said that the Rio Group was firmly committed to strengthening the Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations and would make every effort to ensure that the Special Committee's report was an increasingly relevant tool for reiterating fundamental principles, guiding the work of the Secretariat and making clear the General Assembly's views on peacekeeping operations. The Group supported the promotion of an informal dialogue with a view to enhancing the work of the Committee and was ready to make a substantive contribution to such a dialogue. It was also important to improve the Special Committee's interaction with other organs, in particular the Security Council and the Fifth Committee. The Rio Group had been following the discussion initiated through the New Horizon non-paper, followed by the document entitled “A New Partnership Agenda: Charting a New Horizon for United Nations Peacekeeping”. The Group looked forward to the progress report on the New Horizon Initiative to be issued by the Secretariat.
51. Most of the military and police personnel currently deployed in peacekeeping operations were from developing countries. Those countries must therefore be meaningfully involved in all aspects and stages of peacekeeping operations. The Rio Group called on the Security Council to continue holding private meetings with troop- and police-contributing countries sufficiently in advance of the Council's consultations and to take their perspectives into account.
8
10-59840
A/C.4/65/SR.14
52. Better coordination among the Security Council, the Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations, the Secretariat and troop- and police-contributing countries was essential. In that regard, the Group would like to highlight the established practice of the Security Council Working Group on Peacekeeping Operations to invite troop- and police-contributing countries and the Secretariat to exchange views and concerns regarding specific operations and specific issues, such as the capability gap. Those meetings should be continued on a more regular basis and in an inclusive way.
53. There should be adequate capabilities, clear and appropriate guidelines, logistical and financial resources and appropriate training so as to enable peacekeeping missions to carry out all their mandated tasks. Better coordination between mandates and resources was especially important when complex and sensitive tasks were mandated. The successful conduct of all mandated tasks, including the protection of civilians wherever such a mandate existed, required integration of efforts at all levels and a comprehensive approach.
54. Reiterating that the primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security lay with the United Nations, he said that regional arrangements must work in accordance with the provisions of Chapter VIII of the Charter and were not intended to replace the United Nations or be exempt from fully implementing the guiding principles of United Nations peacekeeping operations.
55. The Rio Group believed that it was essential to guarantee the highest level of ethical conduct of all peacekeeping personnel and reiterated its commitment to the policy of zero tolerance towards sexual exploitation and abuse. The Group welcomed the progress made towards eliminating and preventing misconduct. It welcomed the adoption of the United Nations Comprehensive Strategy on Assistance and Support to Victims of Sexual Exploitation and Abuse by United Nations Staff and Related Personnel (General Assembly resolution 62/214) and the first review of the policy, held in 2009. The Group welcomed the progress made so far and called for the continued implementation of the Strategy.
56. The long-term sustainability of the peacekeeping system depended on ensuring that those countries that wished to contribute to missions had the capacity to do
so. In that regard, while the progress made in crediting reimbursements to Member States in a timely manner was welcome, there was still room for improvement. Reimbursements should be made in a timely and efficient manner, and the Secretariat should continue to look into practical modalities to address the issue, giving equal treatment to all missions. The Group was concerned that under the current conditions offered to Member States, the availability of human and material resources from troop- and police-contributing countries, especially from developing countries, could be undermined. The issue should be thoroughly considered at the next session of the Contingent Owned Equipment (COE) Working Group. Countries that wished to contribute to peacekeeping should also be ensured of the availability of training materials. The ultimate objective of the capability-driven approach should be to improve training standards and training support. The Group looked forward to receiving detailed information about all progress in that area and requested, once again, that publications on peacekeeping operations should be translated and distributed in Spanish and Portuguese.
57. It was particularly important for the Special Committee to hold a substantive discussion on all aspects of peacekeeping operations. The Committee's report should adequately reflect the fact that for peacekeeping missions to be successful, the contexts in which they were deployed must be taken into account. Effective coordination of the United Nations peacebuilding architecture, United Nations funds and programmes, which should act in close coordination with the national authorities of countries emerging from conflicts, remained a critical challenge for the advancement of the peacebuilding process. In order to achieve long-term stability and prevent the recurrence of conflict, the United Nations presence in the field must be strengthened, not only in terms of peacekeeping operations, but also of institutional strengthening, promotion of reconstruction and fostering economic and social development in conflict areas. There should be enhanced interaction and coordination among Member States and all relevant United Nations bodies, in particular the Peacebuilding Commission.
58. The Rio Group reaffirmed its solidarity with the Government and people of Haiti, particularly after the tragic earthquake that had led to the deaths of hundreds of thousands of Haitians and numerous United Nations
10-59840
9
A/C.4/65/SR.14
personnel. The Group acknowledged the fundamental role of international efforts, which could only be effective through a sustainable long-term project under the guidance and leadership of the Haitian Government, in full respect for its sovereignty. MINUSTAH should remain as long as necessary and as long as it was welcomed by the Haitian Government and people, under the renewed mandate contained in Security Council resolution 1944 (2010). Members of the Rio Group were contributing a majority of the troops and part of the police forces and also provided technical cooperation, humanitarian assistance and other forms of support to Haiti.
59. Special attention must be given not only to security aspects, but also to the economic and social development of the country. MINUSTAH was encouraged, within the scope of its mandate, to make the best use of available means and capabilities, including its engineers, to continue providing support for Haiti's reconstruction and development efforts. MINUSTAH also had a role to play in supporting the consolidation of democracy and governance in that country, particularly in view of the upcoming presidential and parliamentary elections to be held on 28 November 2010.
60. Mr. McLay (New Zealand), speaking on behalf of Canada, Australia and New Zealand (CANZ), said that good progress had been made over the past year in implementing the wide-ranging proposals for strengthening United Nations peacekeeping contained in the document “A New Partnership Agenda: Charting a New Horizon for UN Peacekeeping”, with broad agreement on the way forward in several areas and progress towards a shared understanding of key concepts. The challenge for the coming year would be to build on that progress and translate those proposals into a more effective and sustainable mandate for implementation on the ground.
61. The goals and tasks of United Nations peace operations had become increasingly ambitious, both in scope and complexity. The operational environments posed unprecedented challenges, while the tools available - in terms of resources, clear mandates and operational guidance - too often fell short of what was required.
62. The presence of United Nations troops in the Democratic Republic of the Congo since 1999 had provided a framework for the long task of rebuilding
after a devastating 15-year conflict, the remnants of which persisted. In many ways, the challenges faced by the United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUC) and MONUSCO encapsulated both the enormity and the urgency of contemporary peacekeeping challenges. The recent mass rapes served as a reminder that there was much work still to be done. Such events underlined the importance of ensuring that United Nations missions were provided with sufficient guidance on how to protect civilian populations effectively.
63. The CANZ group welcomed the recent progress towards achieving a shared understanding of the concept of the protection of civilians, with the agreement by the Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations at its most recent session to request the development of a strategic framework to guide senior mission leadership in elaborating comprehensive mission-specific protection strategies. That would hopefully provide a solid foundation for enhanced mission planning and the elaboration of guidelines to assist troops and mission leadership in the field.
64. Peacekeepers were currently tasked with protecting civilians in over half of all peacekeeping missions. More work was required to manage the resultant expectations, both internationally and in the area of operations, and to reach a common understanding of what was expected of peacekeepers and their specific operational requirements for meeting those expectations. Despite significant normative advances in the protection of civilians, much remained to be done. The Secretariat should ensure that it maintained effective links with the field.
65. Contemporary peacekeeping missions must be able to adapt their activities to the complex operational realities they faced. In that regard, CANZ welcomed the regional workshops on the issues of deterrence, use of force and operational readiness in peacekeeping, and looked forward to the development of guidelines on the issue in 2011.
66. Referring to Security Council resolution 1325 (2000), he stressed the continuing need for sexual and gender-based violence to be effectively addressed within protection strategies and said that CANZ welcomed the publication of “Addressing conflictrelated sexual violence” - an analytical inventory of peacekeeping practice. Those and other relevant tools could form the basis of appropriate predeployment
10
10-59840
A/C.4/65/SR.14
training and mission-specific strategies. The SecretaryGeneral's appointment of a Special Representative on Sexual Violence in Conflict was an important step towards promoting coherence and accountability in the United Nations approach to those issues. The United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women) would also be able to work with all relevant partners to provide support and leadership on women, peace and security issues.
67. It was also critical for women to be sufficiently represented in peacekeeping operations, so CANZ welcomed the guidelines on “Integrating a gender perspective into the work of the United Nations military peacekeeping operations”.
68. Sustainable peace required the development of effective and stable domestic institutions able to protect their citizens. Primary responsibility for that lay with the State, but where such institutions were unable to meet those responsibilities, the international community had an obligation not only to assist them, but also to support locally owned capacity-building processes to enable host nations to perform key security and governance functions independently.
69. As a result of discussions over the past year, there was now a clear understanding that peacekeeping and peacebuilding were interwoven elements of the same complex transition from conflict to sustainable peace and that core peacebuilding tasks must be integrated into mission mandates, planning and operations from the outset. Hopefully, the report on critical early peacebuilding tasks would provide further clarity and guidance to mission leadership in that regard. The Department of Peacekeeping Operations was therefore encouraged to work with all key stakeholders within the United Nations system to ensure coordination in that area. There was also scope for enhanced collaboration between the Security Council and the Peacebuilding Commission and for enhanced coordination both within the United Nations and with external actors, particularly the World Bank. Peacebuilding required a range of specialized skills that were currently in short supply in many missions, so improving the Organization's ability to source specialist personnel was an urgent priority.
70. The CANZ group welcomed the progress made in regard to the proposals for strengthened field support arrangements and was confident that they had
considerable potential to enhance the delivery of United Nations support services.
71. In United Nations peacekeeping, no partnership was more fundamental than that between the international community and the governments that hosted United Nations operations. Host country consent remained one of the bedrock principles of United Nations peacekeeping, but events over the past year had highlighted the complex challenges that arose when that consent was qualified or withdrawn. The issue merited further consideration over the coming year. In particular, the specific question of how the United Nations and host governments could responsibly manage the drawdown of a mission and the broader issues regarding the management of the compact between the international community and host governments.
The meeting rose at 1.25 p.m.
10-59840
11