United Nations
A/C.4/64/SR.7
General Assembly
Sixty-fourth session
Official Records
Distr.: General 22 October 2009
Original: English
Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee)
Summary record of the 7th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Monday, 12 October 2009, at 10 a.m.
Chairman: Mr. Al-Nasser (Qatar)
Contents
Agenda item 27: University for Peace
Agenda item 35: Information from Non-Self-Governing Territories transmitted under Article 73 e of the Charter of the United Nations (continued)*
Agenda item 36: Economic and other activities which affect the interests of the peoples of the Non-Self-Governing Territories (continued)*
Agenda item 37: Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples by the specialized agencies and the international institutions associated with the United Nations (continued)*
Agenda item 38: Offers by Member States of study and training facilities for inhabitants of Non-Self-Governing Territories (continued)*
Agenda item 39: Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples (Territories not covered under other agenda items) (continued)*
* Items which the Committee has decided to consider together.
This record is subject to correction. Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Official Records Editing Section, room DC2-750, 2 United Nations Plaza, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
09-55380 (E
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session, in a separate corrigendum for each Committee.
A/C.4/64/SR.7
The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m.
Agenda item 27: University for Peace (A/64/281; A/C.4/64/L.6)
1. Mr. Maresca (Rector, University for Peace), introducing the report of the Secretary-General on the University for Peace (A/64/281), said that since 2001, when the Secretary-General had decided to implement a series of reforms, the University for Peace had developed into a significant international institution, expanding to include campuses and programmes around the world in order to fulfil its mandate of making its courses available to all humanity. He acknowledged regular support from Canada, Finland, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden and Switzerland, and occasional support from Belgium, Denmark, Germany, Italy and the United States of America but expressed concern that, notwithstanding resolutions of support from the General Assembly, the University received no financial support from most of the Member States. As its enrolment continued to grow, it needed additional funding for essential infrastructure and scholarships. He invited the members of the Committee to visit the University's main campus in Costa Rica, and appealed to them to ask their Governments to support the University's mission of employing education in the service of global peace as it approached its thirtieth anniversary in 2010.
Draft resolution A/C.4/64/L.6: University for Peace
2. Ms. Zamora (Costa Rica), introducing draft resolution A/C.4/64/L.6, said that the University for Peace urgently needed the political and financial support of the international community to continue expanding its operations around the world in accordance with its mandate. Member States should express their support by signing the International Agreement for the Establishment of the University for Peace. She said that Greece, Madagascar, the Netherlands and Togo had become sponsors of the draft resolution. In the eighth preambular paragraph, the words “to receive” should be replaced by the words “financed with”.
3. The Chairman said that he took it that the Committee was prepared to waive the 24-hour rule under rule 120 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly and take immediate action on the revised draft resolution. The Secretariat had informed him that the draft resolution had no programme budget implications.
4. Draft resolution A/C.4/64/L.3, as orally revised, was adopted.
5. Mr. Kpamatchou (Togo), speaking in explanation of position, commended the achievements of the University for Peace, especially over the past three years. Togo had a long tradition of peace and was actively involved in peacekeeping operations in the Central African Republic, Cote d'Ivoire, Darfur and Liberia. It had ratified most of the major international peace and disarmament instruments and was providing facilities for the United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Africa. Since taking over the presidency of the Togolese Republic in 2005, His Excellency Mr. Faure Essozimna Gnassingbe had pursued a policy of peace and reconciliation and had instituted a number of reforms to guarantee free elections, human rights and freedom of the press. His Government would support any resolution that sought to strengthen the capacities of the University for Peace.
6. The Chairman invited the Committee to take action on the draft resolutions under agenda items 35, 36, 37, 38 and 39.
Agenda item 35: Information from Non-SelfGoverning Territories transmitted under Article 73 e of the Charter of the United Nations (continued)
Draft resolution I (A/64/23, chap. XII)
7. A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guyana, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius,
2
09-55380
A/C.4/64/SR.7
Mexico, Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Tonga, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zimbabwe.
Against:
None.
Abstaining:
France, Israel, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.
8. Draft resolution I was adopted by 140 votes to 0, with 4 abstentions. *
9. Mr. Quarrey (United Kingdom) said that, as in previous years, his delegation had abstained in the vote. His Government did not take issue with the main objective of the draft resolution, which was to seek compliance with Article 73 e of the Charter of the United Nations, and would continue to meet its obligations fully in that regard, in respect of the United Kingdom Overseas Territories. It believed, however, that the decision as to whether a Non-Self-Governing Territory had reached a level of self-government sufficient to relieve the administering Power of the obligation to transmit information under Article 73 e of the Charter ultimately fell to the Government of the Territory and the administering Power concerned, and not to the General Assembly.
* The delegations of Burkina Faso, Chile, Cote d'Ivoire, Guinea, Kuwait, Norway, Pakistan, Sierra Leone, Singapore and Timor-Leste subsequently informed the Committee that they had intended to vote in favour of the draft resolution.
Agenda item 36: Economic and other activities which affect the interests of the peoples of the Non-SelfGoverning Territories (continued)
Draft resolution II (A/64/23, chap. XII)
10. A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guyana, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Sierra Leone, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, TimorLeste, Togo, Tonga, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zimbabwe.
Against:
Israel, United States of America.
Abstaining:
France, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
09-55380
3
A/C.4/64/SR.7
11. Draft resolution II was adopted by 146 votes to 2, with 2 abstentions. *
12. Mr. Diaz Bartolome (Argentina) said that draft resolution II must be interpreted within the framework of resolution 1514 (XV) and other relevant resolutions of the General Assembly on decolonization. Accordingly, the applicability of the draft resolution to a specific Territory depended on whether the right to self-determination was relevant to that Territory. All the General Assembly resolutions on the question of the Malvinas Islands, in particular resolution 2065 (XX) and subsequent resolutions, as well as the resolutions adopted by the Special Committee, had expressly established that, owing to the existence of a sovereignty dispute over the Malvinas Islands, South Georgia Islands and South Sandwich Islands and the surrounding maritime areas, the way to put an end to that special and particular colonial situation was not self-determination, but a negotiated settlement of the sovereignty dispute between the only two parties: the United Kingdom and Argentina. The draft resolution was therefore in no way applicable to the question of the Malvinas Islands, South Georgia Islands and South Sandwich Islands. Moreover, the situation in those archipelagos and the surrounding maritime areas, which were an integral part of Argentine national territory and were being illegally occupied by the United Kingdom, was one of unilateral exploitation by the United Kingdom of the natural resources of Argentina, in open violation of specific pronouncements of the General Assembly, particularly resolution 31/49.
13. Mr. Quarrey (United Kingdom) said that his Government's position on the issue of sovereignty of the Falkland Islands was well-known and had been reiterated in the statement made in exercise of its right of reply to the President of the Argentine Republic during the General Assembly general debate on 23 September 2009. The United Kingdom had no doubt about its sovereignty over the Falkland Islands. There could be no negotiations on the sovereignty of the Falkland Islands unless and until such time as the islanders so wished.
* The delegations of Chile, Guinea, Pakistan and Singapore subsequently informed the Committee that they had intended to vote in favour of the draft resolution.
Agenda item 37: Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples by the specialized agencies and the international institutions associated with the
United Nations (continued)
Draft resolution III (A/64/23, chap. XII)
14. A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Australia, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Ghana, Guatemala, Guyana, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tonga, Tunisia, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zimbabwe.
Against:
None.
Abstaining:
Andorra, Argentina, Armenia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany,
Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Malta, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey,
4
09-55380
A/C.4/64/SR.7
Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.
15. Draft resolution III was adopted by 98 votes to none, with 50 abstentions.*
16. Ms. Ljungstrum (Sweden), speaking on behalf of the European Union, said that while it supported the efforts of the specialized agencies to assist Non-SelfGoverning Territories in educational, humanitarian and technical fields, the European Union considered that the mandates of those institutions must be scrupulously complied with. For that reason it had abstained from the vote on the draft resolution.
17. Mr. Diaz Bartolome (Argentina) said that draft resolution III should be implemented in keeping with the relevant resolutions and decisions of the General Assembly and the Special Committee on specific Territories.
Agenda item 38: Offers by Member States of study and training facilities for inhabitants of Non-SelfGoverning Territories (continued)
Draft resolution A/C. 4/64/L. 3
18. The Chairman announced that Sierra Leone had become a sponsor of the draft resolution.
19. Draft resolution A/C.4/64/L.3 was adopted.
Agenda item 39: Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples (Territories not covered under other agenda items) (continued)
Draft resolution IV on the question of New Caledonia (A/64/23, chap. XII)
20. Draft resolution IV was adopted.
Draft resolution V on the question of Tokelau (A/64/23, chap. XII)
21. Draft resolution V was adopted.
Draft resolution VI on the questions of American Samoa, Anguilla, Bermuda, the British Virgin Islands, the Cayman Islands, Guam, Montserrat, Pitcairn, Saint Helena, the Turks and Caicos Islands and the United States Virgin Islands (A/64/23, chap. XII)
22. The Chairman drew the attention of the Committee to corrections to the draft resolution contained in A/64/23/Corr.2.
23. Draft resolution VI was adopted.
24. Mr. Quarrey (United Kingdom), speaking in explanation of position, said that his delegation had joined the consensus on draft resolution VI, reflecting his Government's full support for the right to selfdetermination. His Government regretted, however, that the Special Committee was continuing with its outdated approach and, in particular, its failure to take full account of the way in which the relationship between the United Kingdom and its overseas Territories had been modernized in a manner acceptable to both parties. His Government therefore considered some of the language in the draft resolution to be unacceptable as it did not fully reflect that modern relationship. His Government did not accept the assertion that self-determination did not apply where there was a sovereignty dispute.
25. Mr. Diaz Bartolome (Argentina) said that his Government fully supported the right of selfdetermination of the peoples under colonial domination and foreign occupation in accordance with General Assembly resolutions 1514 (XV) and 2625 (XXV), and, in that context, expressed support for the right of self-determination of the peoples of the Territories to which draft resolution VI referred. At the same time, it wished to reiterate the position it had conveyed to the Secretary-General in its letter dated 10 June 2009 (A/64/90) regarding the Secretary-General's report on the implementation of decolonization resolutions adopted since the declaration of the First and Second International Decades for the Eradication of Colonialism (A/64/70), which was that it deemed the inclusion of any information pertaining to the question of the Malvinas Islands in that report to be incompatible with the object and purpose of that report, which was to report on the implementation of the decolonization resolutions with respect to the
* The delegations of Chile, Guinea and Pakistan subsequently informed the Committee that they had intended to vote in favour of the draft resolution.
09-55380
5
A/C.4/64/SR.7
11 Territories covered by draft resolution VI. The question of the Malvinas Islands was subject to separate treatment in specific resolutions that gave due consideration to its special and particular features deriving from the existence of a sovereignty dispute between Argentina and the United Kingdom, as recognized by all United Nations resolutions on the question. Information pertaining to the question of the Malvinas Islands should be included in the report of the Secretary-General to the General Assembly on the overall implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, not in a report which was a corollary to a resolution such as the one at hand, which did not deal with the question of the Malvinas islands.
Draft resolution VII on the Dissemination of information on decolonization (A/64/23, chap. XII)
26. A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Central African Republic, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Saint Lucia, Saint
Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, TimorLeste, Togo, Tonga, Tunisia, Turkey, Tuvalu, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zimbabwe.
Against:
Israel, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.
Abstaining:
France.
27. Draft resolution VII was adopted by 150 votes to 3, with 1 abstention.
28. Mr. Quarrey (United Kingdom) said that his delegation had voted against the draft resolution because it remained of the view that the obligation imposed on the United Nations Secretariat to publicize information on decolonization issues constituted an unwarranted drain on the Organization's scarce resources.
29. Mr. Diaz Bartolome (Argentina) said that his Government supported the right of self-determination of the peoples who were still under colonial domination and foreign occupation, in accordance with General Assembly resolutions 1514 (XV) and 2625 (XXV). He stressed, however, that draft resolution VII must be interpreted and implemented in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the General Assembly and the Special Committee on Decolonization, in particular General Assembly resolution 2065 (XX), all of which recognized the existence of a sovereignty dispute over the Malvinas Islands, South Georgia Islands and South Sandwich Islands and the surrounding maritime areas between Argentina and the United Kingdom as its sole parties and established that the way to settle it was through the resumption of bilateral negotiations in order to achieve as soon as possible a just, peaceful and definitive solution to the dispute, taking into account the interests of the inhabitants of the islands.
Vincent and the Grenadines, San Marino, Saudi
6
09-55380
A/C.4/64/SR.7
Draft resolution VIII on the Implementation of the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Colonial Countries and Peoples (A/64/23, chap. XII)
30. A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Central African Republic, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Togo, Tonga, Tunisia, Turkey, Tuvalu, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zimbabwe.
Against:
Israel, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.
Abstaining:
Belgium, France.
31. Draft resolution VIII was adopted by 152 votes to 3, with 2 abstentions.
32. Mr. Diaz Bartolome (Argentina), referring to paragraph 7 of draft resolution VIII, recalled that, visiting missions could take place only in cases of Territories to which self-determination applied, where no dispute over sovereignty existed. That provision was fully in line with General Assembly resolution 850 (IX), which also established the requirement that any visiting mission must be approved by the General Assembly.
33. Mr. Quarrey (United Kingdom) said that, despite the fact that it had voted against the draft resolution, the United Kingdom remained committed to modernizing its relationship with its Overseas Territories, while fully taking into account the views of the peoples of those Territories.
The meeting rose at 11.55 a.m.
09-55380
7