United Nations
A/C.4/70/SR.27
General Assembly
Seventieth session
Official Records
Distr.: General 28 June 2016
Original: English
Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee)
Summary record of the 27th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Monday, 13 June 2016, at 11.45 a.m.
Chair: Mr. Bowler (Malawi)
Contents
Expression of condolence in connection with the recent terrorist attack in the United States of America
Agenda item 5: Election of the officers of the Main Committees
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Control Unit (srcorrections@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
16-09834 (E)
III III II11MWMWWV
A/C.4/70/SR.27
The meeting was called to order at 11.45 a.m.
Expression of condolence in connection with the recent terrorist attack in the United States of America
1. The Chair offered condolences to the families of the victims of the tragic terrorist attack carried out in Orlando, Florida.
Agenda item 5: Election of the officers of the Main Committees
2. The Chair said that, in accordance with rules 99 and 103 of the rules of procedure, the meeting had been convened for the purpose of electing the Chair and other members of the Bureau of the Committee for the seventy-first session of the General Assembly.
3. The nomination of Mr. Drobnjak (Croatia) for the office of Chair had been endorsed by the Group of Eastern European States. He took it that the Committee wished to elect Mr. Drobnjak (Croatia) Chair.
4. Mr. Drobnjak (Croatia) was elected Chair by acclamation.
5. The Chair said that the nominations of
Mr. Maleki (Islamic Republic of Iran), Mr. Benard Estrada (Guatemala) and Mr. Poels (Belgium) for the three offices of Vice-Chair had been endorsed by the Group of Asia-Pacific States, the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States and the Group of Western European and Other States, respectively.
6. Mr. Maleki (Islamic Republic of Iran),
Mr. Benard Estrada (Guatemala) and Mr. Poels (Belgium) were elected Vice-Chairs by acclamation.
7. The Chair said that the election of the
Rapporteur would be held at a later date.
The meeting rose at 11.50p.m.
2/2
16-09834