United Nations
A/c .4/70/SR.19
General Assembly
Seventieth session
Official Records
Distr.: General 11 January 2016
Original: English
Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee)
Summary record of the 19th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Thursday, 5 November 2015, at 3 p.m.
Chair: Mr. Proano (Vice-Chair) (Ecuador)
Contents
Agenda item 56: Comprehensive review of the whole question of peacekeeping operations in all their aspects (continued)
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Control Unit (srcorrections@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
15-19323 (E)
in ii 11 in wmwwm
Please recycle
A/C.4/70/SR.19
In the absence of the Chair, Mr. Proano (Ecuador), Vice-Chair, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3 p.m.
Agenda item 56: Comprehensive review of the whole question of peacekeeping operations in all their aspects (continued) (A/70/95-S/2015/446 and A/70/357-S/2015/682)
1. Mr. Dalo (Argentina) said that United Nations peacekeeping operations had evolved in response to increasingly complex and dangerous environments where there was a rising need for civilian protection. Among the most notable recent changes had been the creation of new multidimensional missions, which served as a platform for sustainable development. It was therefore important to continue assessing changes and seeking ways to strengthen the operational capacity of peacekeeping missions. While his delegation might not agree with certain recommendations contained in the report of the Secretary-General entitled “The future of United Nations peace operations: implementation of the recommendations of the High-Level Independent Panel on Peace Operations” (A/70/357-S/2015/682), it acknowledged that they represented a balanced perspective based on extensive consultations, taking into account a broad range of positions.
2. His delegation agreed on the need to increase the regular budget resources allocated to strengthening Secretariat efforts in the priority areas of conflict prevention, mediation and use of political tools in the design and implementation of peacekeeping strategies. Argentina appreciated the difficulty in addressing the delicate question of the use of force in peacekeeping operations, as outlined in the “Report of the High-level Independent Panel on Peace Operations on uniting our strengths for peace: politics, partnership and people” (A/70/95-S/2015/446), and reaffirmed that while the basic principles of peacekeeping - consent of the parties, impartiality, and the non-use of force except in self-defence and in defence of the mandate - were vital to the success of missions, they should not preclude civilian protection or mission-defence actions from being taken in extreme cases. In that regard, the rules of engagement must be clearly understood and triangular cooperation among the Security Council, Secretariat and troop- and police-contributing countries must be reinforced. Given that the peacekeeping
system had not been designed to accommodate the use of force, extreme caution must be exercised when assigning peace enforcement tasks to missions, which should only be done in exceptional circumstances; nor should peacekeeping missions engage in counterterrorism.
3. Argentina supported the recommendation that civilian protection should be viewed not as a purely military task but also from a political and humanitarian perspective, based on building a safe and secure environment where force was used only as a last resort. Non-armed civilian protection strategies should be prioritized, alongside close cooperation with host States and humanitarian organizations working on the ground. Given the delicate nature of civilian protection, special training and equipment and commensurate financial resources must be provided.
4. His delegation also supported the Panel's recommendations for more missions to include human rights protection and promotion components. Sufficient resources to recruit and deploy specialized human rights personnel should be allocated in the initial stages of such missions, along with ongoing support to missions and Special Envoys of the Secretary-General. In addition, the women, peace and security agenda should be promoted and measures should be taken to prevent sexual exploitation and abuse in peacekeeping missions.
5. As his delegation had stated on previous occasions, it was contradictory to expect peacekeeping operations to take on more tasks, under increasingly difficult conditions, while maintaining funding levels unchanged. Member States should demonstrate their stated political will to strengthen peacekeeping operations by assuming the resulting financial costs.
6. Commending the good faith and spirit of compromise shown by Member States during negotiations on peacekeeping to date, and expressing the hope that the same attitude would prevail in future discussions, he recognized the courageous work of peacekeepers on the ground and paid tribute to those who had sacrificed their lives in pursuit of a fairer, more peaceful world.
7. Mr. Liu Jieyi (China) said that Member States must work together to fully implement the outcomes of the recent summits held in commemoration of the 70th anniversary of the United Nations. He expressed support for the Secretary-General's initiative to review
2/16
15-19323
A/C.4/70/SR.19
peace operations and welcomed the reports of the Panel and Secretary-General, highlighting the need for constant efforts to improve and adapt peacekeeping operations to keep pace with the changing global environment.
8. The fundamental principles of peacekeeping operations formed the foundation on which Member States gave their support. As such, all peacekeeping missions must continue to be guided by those principles, and must also respect the national sovereignty and wishes of the States concerned and assist in building capacity to ensure sustained peace following withdrawal of peacekeeping forces. A further necessity was to enhance communication with troopcontributing countries and allow them to participate more substantively in decision-making on peacekeeping issues. Peacekeeping operations should be managed dynamically to improve troop-generation and deployment processes, and the logistics system should be streamlined to make best use of the limited resources available. Additionally, a clearer focus on practical results was needed, with realistic mandates, clear priorities for each stage of peacekeeping operations, enough flexibility to accommodate changing realities on the ground, and timely exit strategies. Peacekeeping missions should work not in isolation, but rather in synergy with other processes, such as preventive diplomacy, peacebuilding and national reconciliation. It was also necessary to enhance cooperation and coordination with the goodoffices efforts of Special Representatives of the Secretary-General and with national law-enforcement authorities and regional and sub -regional organizations, including the African Union (AU) and Arab League.
9. As a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council and the largest developing country in the world, China was a major contributor to peace operations. At the recent Leaders' Summit on Peacekeeping, the President of China had made a series of pledges to strengthen its existing support for peace operations, including establishment of a permanent peacekeeping policy squad and a peacekeeping standby force of 8,000 troops as part of the new Peacekeeping Capability Readiness System; favourable consideration of future requests from the United Nations for more Chinese transport, medical staff and engineers for peacekeeping operations; provision of training to 2,000 new peacekeepers over the next five years;
implementation of 10 demining assistance programmes; donation of $100 million to support the establishment of the African Standby Force and boost its capacity for crisis response; provision of the first peacekeeping helicopter squad to United Nations peace operations in Africa; and allocation of a portion of China's contribution to the Peace and Development Fund to support UN peacekeeping operations. China would work earnestly towards implementing those pledges and remained strongly committed to cooperating with all stakeholders to establish mutually beneficial partnerships, thus helping to build a peaceful future for humanity.
10. Mr. Koncke (Uruguay) said that his country, convinced of the moral imperative to show solidarity with countries facing conflict and instability, had first contributed to peacekeeping operations in the 1950s and had increased its number of blue helmets to 2,611 by 2006, making it the biggest troop contributor in the Americas, with approximately 25 per cent of its operational defence forces involved in peacekeeping operations.
11. On the 70th anniversary of the United Nations, international peace and security remained a distant objective; the global security environment's increasing complexity had meant that the number of peacekeeping troops deployed around the world was at a historic peak and continued to rise. Uruguay subscribed to the Kigali Principles on the Protection of Civilians issued in May 2015 by the International Conference on the Protection of Civilians. As co-chair of the Leaders' Summit on Peacekeeping in September 2015, Uruguay had pledged to increase its peacekeeping contributions.
12. In view of the particular need to protect women and children in conflict situations, including against sexual violence, Uruguayan peacekeeping forces were engaged in special protection measures, including day and night patrols to protect the vulnerable in remote areas as part of the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUSCO).
13. As a troop-contributing country with a significant presence on the ground but limited opportunities to participate in the establishment and management of peacekeeping missions, Uruguay highlighted the need to maintain and increase the relevance of the Special Committee as the most appropriate forum to discuss all issues relating to peacekeeping and to ensure that any
15-19323
3/16
A/C.4/70/SR.19
changes to peace operations were carried out in strict observance of the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and the basic principles of peacekeeping. His delegation called for an analysis of the Intervention Brigade within MONUSCO, which had been established as an exceptional measure and did not constitute a precedent, so as to identify its impact on United Nations peacekeeping principles, in particular that of impartiality.
14. Uruguay attached great importance to dialogue and consultations with all parties that had a direct or indirect influence on the work of its blue helmets and noted that triangular cooperation was essential for achieving a real global partnership. It was concerned about the direct attacks on peace operations, in particular in Mali and Somalia, and called for measures to improve the safety of peacekeepers and ensure that host countries met their obligations to hold the perpetrators accountable. Women's participation in peace operations must be further increased and all forms of development should be promoted to tackle the root causes of conflict. The Government of Uruguay was grateful to all peacekeepers for their contribution to international peace and security.
15. Ms. Mohamed Didi (Maldives) said that peacekeepers were a force for good in a world plagued by hardship. Her delegation honoured all peacekeepers for their bravery and sacrifices and wholeheartedly condemned all attacks perpetrated against them.
16. The expansion of peacekeeping mandates to address changing global dynamics and multiple threats showed that the United Nations was at the frontline of global peacekeeping efforts. Although small island developing States were among the biggest troop contributors relative to population size, capacity building in those countries remained a challenge. In that connection, she noted that despite commendable support from the Government of Malaysia in preparing troops, technical difficulties and capacity and capability issues had forced the Maldives to postpone deployment of its first contingent of United Nations peacekeepers, originally planned for 2015. The Maldives remained fully committed to peacekeeping operations, which formed a central part of the work of the Organization, and looked forward to making its initial modest contribution to peacekeeping forces in the near future.
17. Mr. Mavros (Cyprus) said that coherence, synergy and complementarity were required for the ongoing reviews of peace operations, peacebuilding architecture and implementation of Security Council resolution 1325 (2000). Highlighting United Nations assistance to his country since the 1960s in the form of the United Nations Peacekeeping Force in Cyprus (UNFICYP) and the good offices mission of the Secretary-General, he emphasized that the credibility of the United Nations and the success of its peace operations rested on its ability to remain impartial and objective. He recalled, however, that the Organization could never be neutral, because doing so would violate the principles of its own Charter, resolutions and international law.
18. Agreeing that human rights, gender equality, humanitarian work and civilian protection should form the core of peace operations, he underscored the need to dedicate additional efforts and resources to promoting reconciliation and respect for human rights. As part of its efforts to promote the women and peace and security agenda, Cyprus had established a bi-communal technical committee on gender equality, which was promoting women's participation at all stages of the peace process.
19. He thanked the United Nations for its longstanding efforts in pursuit of a peaceful and lasting settlement to the conflict in Cyprus, and reaffirmed his Government's commitment to cooperating with other States to improve the effectiveness of peace operations while taking into account the particularities of each mission.
20. Mr. Holopatiuk (Ukraine) said that the United Nations should reform its peacekeeping capabilities to enable it to more efficiently tackle rising levels of violence around the globe. Welcoming the Panel's report, in particular the references to Ukraine's initiative on promoting aviation in peace operations, he emphasized his country's intention to focus on consolidation of peacekeeping during its upcoming term as a non-permanent member of the Security Council in 2016-17. Closer cooperation between the Security Council and troop - and police-contributing countries was needed at every stage of peace operations, and tools should be developed to improve the security of peacekeeping personnel.
21. At a time when Ukraine was resisting external aggression from the Russian Federation and constantly
4/16
15-19323
A/C.4/70/SR.19
feared the re-escalation of that conflict despite the truce in force, he trusted that the United Nations could be counted on to provide his country with the necessary assistance. Highlighting Ukraine's valuable past and ongoing contribution to peace operations, particularly through its provision of troops and helicopters, he called on the Security Council and the Secretary-General to deploy a peacekeeping mission to the Donbas region in eastern Ukraine to assist in implementing the Minsk agreements, to which his Government was strongly committed.
22. The Government of Ukraine proposed to increase its provision of military helicopters to United Nations peace operations, and share with other troop contributing countries the experience gained by Ukrainian helicopter pilots during combat operations to repel Russian aggression. Finally, his delegation expressed condolences to all States whose citizens had lost their lives as part of United Nations peace operations, and highlighted the opportunity offered by the International Day of United Nations Peacekeepers to pay tribute to blue helmets.
23. Mr. Erciyes (Turkey) said that the 70th anniversary of the establishment of the United Nations offered a valuable opportunity to review the effectiveness of the Organization's efforts to promote international peace and security. His delegation, like others, was profoundly concerned by the growing demand for peacekeeping in response to the proliferation of crises and threats around the world, at a time when resources were tighter than ever. In view of the challenges posed by the current global security environment, measures must be taken to enable United Nations peace operations to adapt as necessary. Turkey welcomed the recommendations contained in the Panel's report and the Secretary-General's action agenda, in particular their emphasis on the importance of politics, global and regional partnerships and realistic mandate design.
24. Core elements of peace operations, such as mediation, preventive diplomacy and peacebuilding, should be reinforced through a holistic approach. Operational efficiency must be improved at all levels, mandates must be clearly defined, and exit strategies planned in advance and regularly updated. It was also important to address the concerns of troop- and policecontributing countries, particularly with regard to personnel protection. Peacekeepers must be adequately trained and equipped, and command structures should
be adapted to deal with changing requirements. A further key task was to measure the effectiveness of peace operations by analysing their impact on the populations concerned.
25. Calling for increased vigilance over peacekeeping missions to guarantee civilian protection, his delegation stressed Turkey's full adherence to the Secretary-General's zero-tolerance policy on sexual exploitation and abuse by United Nations peacekeepers. It also emphasized the need for adequate burden-sharing, in which the Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations played a crucial role.
26. Turkey was deeply committed to protecting the vulnerable and promoting international peace and security, as demonstrated by its active participation in peace operations led by the United Nations and other international organizations all over the globe and by its major contributions to the United Nations Peacebuilding Fund. At the Leaders' Summit on Peacekeeping in September 2015, Turkey had announced new pledges to support peace operations by deploying personnel and equipment and providing specialized training in such key areas as counterterrorism, maritime security and crime-scene investigation. Reaffirming Turkey's commitment to peacekeeping, he paid tribute to all United Nations peacekeeping personnel, including those who had lost their lives in the line of duty.
27. Mr. Rattray (Jamaica), paying tribute to the brave peacekeeping personnel who had lost their lives in service of the cause of international peace and security, said that his Government condemned all attacks against United Nations personnel and remained committed to improving the safety and security of peacekeeping forces in the field.
28. Faced with the growing complexity and scale of modern security challenges and the corresponding rise in the danger posed to peacekeeping personnel, traditional peace and security responses had proven grossly inadequate. His delegation would therefore support all innovative and considered proposals that would help the Organization to adapt to the current situation and improve the safety and security of personnel as a matter of priority.
29. Political settlement, the fundamental objective of United Nations peace operations, was extremely difficult to achieve in deeply divided communities. The Organization must therefore strive to engage in
15-19323
5/16
A/C.4/70/SR.19
dialogue with all concerned parties, and actively demonstrate willingness to support peacekeeping mission mandates through sustained, long-term efforts. His delegation supported the call for the Security Council to use its political leverage to support efforts to achieve lasting political solutions.
30. Given that protection of civilians formed part of the Organization's raison d'etre, Jamaica welcomed efforts in recent years to adapt policies, rules of engagement and training to ensure that civilian protection was adequately taken into account in all peacekeeping missions. Given the need for rapid deployment of peacekeeping forces to conflict situations, Member States, particularly those with the capability to provide troops, regrettably lacked the necessary political will to achieve the level of readiness required for deployment. His delegation therefore welcomed the Secretary-General's proposal to establish three complementary rapid response capabilities with a view to providing a more timely and flexible response. Taking note of the functions and current funding arrangements for the Strategic Force Generation and Capability Planning Cell, it looked forward to receiving proposals on the institutionalization of the Peacekeeping Capability Readiness System.
31. Jamaica welcomed the efforts of the Department of Field Support and Department of Peacekeeping Operations to harness new technology to support the work of peace operations and the Department's expressed commitment to report back to Member States on progress achieved towards internal reorganization of the Information and Communication Technology Division.
32. While positive steps had been taken towards increasing transparency in the triangular relationship among the Security Council, Secretariat and troop - and police-contributing countries, mechanisms should be improved to enable the latter to participate more substantively in decision-making on mandate design and adaptation. Jamaica therefore supported the efforts of the Secretary-General to explore options in that regard.
33. He welcomed the proposals on military and police training, and commended the efforts of the Secretariat to enhance pre-deployment training, reaffirming the willingness of his Government to comply with the request to provide certification to all
uniformed personnel who had completed United Nations pre-deployment training. Jamaica was in favour of bilateral and regional training partnerships and encouraged the development of facilities that would support new and emerging troop and police contributors.
34. Jamaica regarded ethical conduct in peacekeeping missions as paramount and was disturbed by reports of sexual misconduct by United Nations peacekeeping personnel. While various matters would need to be addressed in relation to that issue, including disciplinary procedures and investigation, the main focus should be on prevention. His delegation therefore eagerly awaited the standardization of targeted vetting of military contingents and formed police-unit personnel, and the roll-out of the mandatory e-learning programme on sexual exploitation and abuse.
35. Women made a valuable contribution to the maintenance of international peace and security and should be more involved in decision-making processes, including in senior roles in conflict prevention and peacebuilding. Jamaica regretted that targets on gender balance in leadership teams were not being met, and looked forward to the redoubling of efforts to implement Security Council resolution 1325 (2000). It would continue to engage in meaningful dialogue and contribute to the development of effective policy on peacekeeping issues.
36. Mr. Remaoun (Algeria) said that his Government welcomed the measures outlined in the Secretary-General's report, as well as the adoption of the General Assembly resolution accompanying that report. His delegation also appreciated the holistic and open approach in the Panel's report. It was pleased that its repeated calls to increase the Organization's cooperation with regional organizations, including the African Union, had been taken into account in the Panel's and Secretary-General's reports.
37. The Secretary-General's call for a strong and institutionalized partnership with the African Union had been accompanied by a firm conviction that predictable, sustainable and Security Councilauthorized financing of AU operations was an international responsibility and a key area for United Nations engagement. Algeria also welcomed the European Union's increased contribution to the African Peace Facility for the 2014-2016 period. The recent report of the Chairperson of the AU Commission on
6/16
15-19323
A/C.4/70/SR.19
follow-up steps on the Common African Position on the Review of United Nations Peace Operations outlined practical steps for financing AU-led peace operations and underscored the organization's commitment to fulfilling its responsibilities with regard to the new funding mechanism.
38. Currently, United Nations peacekeeping operations were authorized or had their mandates extended without clearly identifiable parties to the conflict or a viable political process in conflict situations which were often internal. Those conflicts were complicated by difficult humanitarian and socioeconomic circumstances and exacerbated by the presence of terrorist organizations that had an interest in a power vacuum at the national level. Peace operations therefore faced new challenges in the context of weak central governments and porous borders, such as the spread of weapons, organized crime, cross-border drug trafficking, public health crises and cyber-threats by terrorist and criminal organizations. His delegation therefore reaffirmed the importance of political solutions, a guiding principle for conflict resolution, for which prevention and mediation were important instruments. Re-establishing and strengthening the rule of law was a sound investment for lasting peace.
39. His delegation was concerned by the persistent and increasing incidence of sexual exploitation and abuse in peacekeeping operations, which were detrimental to the image and credibility of the United Nations. The Organization's actions must not become a source of further suffering to the people it was supposed to serve. Algeria welcomed the Secretary General's commitment to a zero -tolerance policy towards all forms of sexual exploitation and abuse by United Nations staff members and related personnel. It also noted the related work in progress under the Sixth Committee agenda item entitled “Criminal accountability of United Nations officials and experts on mission.”
40. The Security Council had reviewed the mandates of several peacekeeping missions, and should do so for all peacekeeping operations without exception. The Secretary-General had repeatedly stressed that those operations' lack of independent contact with civil society limited the Organization's ability to assess the situation on the ground. United Nations peace operations should employ every means of conflict resolution, including human-rights monitoring.
41. Regarding the need for change, his delegation agreed with Deputy Secretary-General Jan Eliasson that the international community currently had an opportunity to implement change, and that there was a close correlation between human rights and other peacekeeping elements. It recalled that the reports of the Panel and of the Advisory Group of Experts on the Review of the Peacebuilding Architecture (A/69/968S/2015/490), as well as the global study on the implementation of Security Council resolution 1325 (2000),* had all noted that peace and security, development and human rights were interdependent and interrelated, and one could not be sustained without the others' progress. The importance of including a human-rights component on the ground had also been stressed by the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. In fact, only the United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara (MINURSO) did not monitor and report on human-rights conditions on the ground.
42. As for deploying authorized foreign military contingents from individual States or regional organizations alongside United Nations peacekeeping operations, his delegation reiterated the importance of providing a clear mandate, including with regard to their configuration and withdrawal.
43. Mr. Moussa (Niger) said that the majority of United Nations peacekeeping operations took place on the African continent, which was why it remained at the heart of the Security Council's concerns. Africans gradually took responsibility for overseeing peace on their continent: having deployed 37,907 men and women, or almost a third of all peacekeepers, they were currently among the biggest contributors to peacekeeping operations. Niger was eager to contribute to international peace and security and had supplied 2,048 men and women to several peacekeeping missions.
44. The effectiveness of a peacekeeping operation or a special political mission depended to a great extent on the logistical support, staffing, equipment, financing and reliable resources provided. That support was incumbent on all Member States, which were legally
* “Preventing Conflict, Transforming Justice, Securing the Peace: A Global Study on Implementation of United Nations Security Council resolution 1325 (2000)”. Published by UN-Women in 2015; available for download at http://wps.unwomen.org/~/media/files/un%20women/ wps/highlights/unw-global-study-1325-2015.pdf.
15-19323
7/16
A/C.4/70/SR.19
bound to allocate funding towards peacekeeping operations under Article 17 of the Charter of the United Nations, a principle affirmed by the General Assembly in its resolution 55/5.
45. As a troop-contributing country, Niger paid tribute to the blue helmets for supporting peace consolidation and showing courage in the face of threats and danger in their operation zones. The effectiveness of peacekeeping operations must be bolstered and personnel must be recruited in line with the principles of gender parity and geographic distribution. Niger recognized the Department of Peacekeeping Operations for integrating the efforts undertaken by the United Nations, governmental entities and non-governmental organizations; and also the Department of Field Support for supplying specialized services and United Nations police forces, providing advice to national police forces, monitoring compliance with international human rights standards, and encouraging and re-establishing public order and the rule of Law.
46. Niger favoured negotiation and mediation as tools for peace consolidation and conflict resolution, opposed using unilateral force towards those ends, and advocated a central role for the United Nations.
47. Mr. Diallo (Senegal) said that, by instituting the Panel, the Secretary-General had rightly invited the Member States to objectively review peacekeeping operations. The reports of the Panel and the Secretary General gave Member States the opportunity to take stock of peacekeeping operations so as to allow them to more efficiently fulfil their mission of establishing lasting peace.
48. Initially endowed with simple mandates that excluded any use of force, peacekeeping operations had become complex and multidimensional undertakings that were difficult to implement owing to the changing nature of conflicts, along with asymmetric threats and challenges like terrorism, violent extremism, maritime piracy, trans-national organized crime, pandemics, and drug, weapon and human trafficking. His delegation subscribed to the Secretary-General's four main approaches, i.e. protecting civilians, prioritizing prevention and mediation, fostering stronger partnerships between regional an international actors, and providing sufficient funding.
49. The international community must anticipate situations and assume the responsibility of providing
optimal conditions for deployed troops. In concert with troop-contributing countries, the Security Council must endow peacekeeping operations with clear mandates as well as sufficient financial resources, in order to strengthen them as needed and empower their personnel with the means to combat human-rights violations and protect civilian populations without failing to provide legitimate defence. His delegation also reiterated its call for improving existing conditions for military personnel on the ground, particularly in the area of lodging.
50. Welcoming the reports' particular focus on partnerships between the United Nations and regional organizations, he said that strengthening cooperation between the United Nations and the African Union would foster improved execution of ongoing operations and contribute to the priorities of prevention and mediation emphasized in the reports. It was also essential to establish triangular dialogue among the troop-contributing countries, the Secretary-General and the Security Council with a view to promoting improved coordination among actors.
51. The best way to resolve crises was to address their root causes. Even if an economic solution was not a panacea in the face of growing and complex challenges, optimally addressing concerned countries' specific development needs would at least partially resolve certain crises. Development, through mobilizing important resources so as to structurally transform the economies of countries emerging from conflict, must be at the heart of the international community's crisis-resolution efforts. Hence, the strategic importance of the disarmament, demobilization and reintegration (DDR) programmes as a key component of peace maintenance and consolidation must be reaffirmed.
52. Moreover, as one of the most vulnerable groups during conflicts, women must play a key role in preventing and resolving conflicts and consolidating peace by participating in all efforts towards those ends, including at the decision-making level. In the same vein, his Government reiterated its support for the Secretary-General's zero-tolerance policy regarding sexual abuse. The Senegalese authorities would consequently repatriate all those who failed to meet their professional obligations. Senegal had already expressed its full commitment to the Kigali Plan of Action for Conflict-affected Areas, which offered the most appropriate means for protecting civilians.
8/16
15-19323
A/C.4/70/SR.19
53. As a developing country, Senegal faced great economic challenges, but its commitment to international peace and security remained unwavering, as demonstrated by its rank as the seventh -biggest troop-contributing country. In total, Senegal had contributed 3,762 troops and planned to donate a helicopter unit to the United Nations Mission in the Central African Republic (MINURCO) along with a personnel transport plane.
54. Mr. Ndong Ella (Gabon) said that the international community must continue its efforts to adapt peacekeeping operations to a perpetually changing global context. His delegation also welcomed the plan of action in the Secretary-General's report to deeply reform peacekeeping operations, including political missions and peace consolidation missions, and believed that the priorities emphasized by the Secretary-General addressed the international community's current concerns. It was imperative to strengthen the Organization's prevention and mediation efforts to promote the political settlement of crises.
55. Under ongoing reforms, the United Nations Regional Offices required substantial financial and staffing resources in order to increase their efficiency on the ground. Those offices played a crucial role in alleviating tensions and provided considerable support in drafting inter-State policy on trans-national matters. For instance, the United Nations Regional Office for Central Africa (UNOCA) and the Secretary-General's assistance missions in that region had defused tensions before they could escalate into open conflict. Moreover, the United Nations must strengthen its partnership with regional organizations, which had greater familiarity with the ground on which peacekeeping operations were deployed.
56. It was indispensable to consult on and implement common strategies in crisis situations to ensure that operations were effective and obtained the desired results. The international community had noted the importance of that strategy in Somalia and, to a certain extent in Darfur, and more recently in Mali and Burkina Faso.
57. His delegation welcomed the ongoing discussion on implementing, in 2016, a joint United Nations African Union framework for a strengthened partnership on peace and security between the United Nations Secretariat and the African Union Commission. However, the joint framework must
ensure that the Organization complied with its commitments to the AU and, above all, implemented mechanisms for sufficient, stable and predictable funding in support of AU peace operations.
58. Civilian protection must be central among the Organization's peacekeeping priorities at any time and place. The emergence of new forms of conflict, often involving a multitude of actors on the ground, increasingly affected populations, primarily women and children, who were subjected to all forms of violence and were the most vulnerable groups in modern conflicts. All United Nations peacekeeping operations deployed in war zones must therefore integrate a civilian-protection component in their mandates. The success of the intervention brigade in the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUSCO) confirmed that assessment.
59. Nevertheless, his delegation welcomed the considerable progress the United Nations had achieved when human rights were made a component of peacekeeping mandates. It reiterated its call for consideration of language in peacekeeping operations, especially during the selection of commanders. Enforcing multilingualism on every level of the command chain and as a function of the environment would help establish a constructive dialogue with the host country and a climate of trust required for the effective implementation of peacekeeping mandates, thus increasing the efficiency of peacekeeping operations on the ground.
60. Mr. Bosah (Nigeria) said that the reviews of United Nations peace operations and peace-building architecture were timely in view of the increased number of conflicts and new peacekeeping challenges, as the last significant assessment of those frameworks had been conducted over a decade earlier. Commending the extensive consultations held during the Panel's review, which had led to broad acceptance of the report, his delegation also welcomed the Secretary-General's action plan to implement the Panel's recommendations, which renewed focus on prevention, mediation and stronger regional-global partnerships and included new ways of planning and conducting peace operations so as to make them faster, more responsive and more accountable to the needs of countries and peoples in conflict.
15-19323
9/16
A/C.4/70/SR.19
61. In prioritizing implementation areas, it was important to move from identifying proposals for immediate and lasting solutions to setting targets in United Nations peace operations. Underscoring the vital need to address the evolving challenges of peacekeeping within the scope of the Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations, he emphasized the importance of strengthening triangular cooperation among the Secretariat, troop- and policecontributing countries and the Security Council.
62. Nigeria welcomed the Panel's recommendations for enhancing the cooperative relationship between the United Nations and the AU. Partnership was the cornerstone of Africa's effort to stabilize its vast regions and shoulder its share of the global responsibility to maintain peace and security. It was important to highlight the African Union's funding challenges and the Organization's need to assume primary responsibility for AU-led operations that served as bridging measures. That recommendation should not be misconstrued as unwillingness on the part of the AU to oversee its own operations, but was an acknowledgement that armed conflicts required complex, nuanced and often highly technical responses entailing a level of infrastructure that the AU simply could not afford. The need for support did not amount to dependency.
63. His delegation therefore welcomed the Panel's proposal on the use of contributions assessed by the United Nations to support Security Council-authorized AU peace operations, including the costs associated with deployed uniformed personnel. It also welcomed the Secretary-General's decision to prioritize implementation of the Panel's recommendation on developing stronger regional-global partnerships, which would require upgrading institutional collaboration from context-specific to more predictable mechanisms for cooperation. African nations should leverage the reforms to create the requisite stability and social order for advancing their developmental goals.
64. While his delegation welcomed the use of advanced technology in United Nations peace operations, for example in dealing with the danger posed to peacekeepers by the use of improvised explosive devices, it stressed the need to ensure that the benefits derived from using such technology did not undermine the principles of territorial integrity and
sovereignty of States as set forth in the Charter of the United Nations.
65. Endorsing the adoption of innovative strategies based on non-violent approaches to protect civilians in conflict environments, including the Panel's proposal on using unarmed civilian protectors, his delegation also stressed the importance of developing strategies to empower the local population in conflict environments, ensuring material assistance where it was most needed. It was important to strengthen national institutions so that they could effectively discharge their primary responsibility of providing security in conflict and post-conflict areas.
66. The collective efforts of Member States and the international community were needed to overcome the enormous challenges faced by peacekeeping operations. Nigeria's continued contributions to United Nations peacekeeping operations, which had begun in 1960, were eloquent testimonies to its commitment, which stemmed from the conviction that it was only in an atmosphere of peace and security that the international community's aspirations for sustained global development could be achieved. His delegation paid tribute to the peacekeepers serving in hostile environments and extremely difficult conditions.
67. Mr. Mwinyi (Tanzania) said that the nature of conflicts that peacekeeping operations currently confronted, particularly in the settlement of intra-State conflicts, did not justify or warrant changing what peacekeeping operations were and must continue to be.
68. United Nations peacekeeping operations must invariably comply with the agreed basic principles of peacekeeping, which were essential to maintaining the credibility and legitimacy of that flagship activity. In reality, peacekeepers in most missions continued to be deployed when there was neither peace to keep nor clear adversaries to separate. While the qualitative utility of early intervention could not be overemphasized when it came to saving lives through a collectively endorsed intervention, it was necessary to clearly establish whether peace enforcement or peacekeeping was envisaged. Doing so would ensure that deployed forces and contingents would be aware of the envisaged mandate at every phase of the mission cycle.
69. While the roles of peace enforcement and peacekeeping should never be confused with fighting a war, deploying forces with a uniform, shared mindset
10/16
15-19323
A/C.4/70/SR.19
would optimize the Organization's collective performance and output and maximize its high moral ground. Tanzania remained committed to engaging actively in peacekeeping operations.
70. Civilian protection currently remained at the centre of most peacekeeping operations with Chapter VII mandates. That responsibility unquestionably lay with the host Government, however weak it appeared to be, as long as it possessed the legitimacy of the majority of its population and had come into being on the basis of a social contract. Peacekeeping operations must work in tandem with the host Governments in helping them achieve sustainable peace and socio -political harmony and advance economic development goals.
71. Joining previous speakers in welcoming the Secretary-General's report, whose underlying principles must receive priority attention, he said that the focus on holding democratic elections without addressing the root causes of conflicts still undermined the success of peacekeeping operations. Long-term lack of resources and political will had also undermined peacebuilding and its sustainability. Improved and innovative ways of dealing with all those challenges should be developed and supported.
72. In view of the occasional limitations to the capability of international organizations to conduct foreign interventions. the AU was striving to become a more prominent actor in the continent's crises. His delegation believed that there were certain situations where regional and sub-regional organizations should assume the first responder's role, and strongly supported credible partnerships with such organizations. Welcoming the Secretary-General's joint review and assessment, with the AU and in consultation with other partners, of the mechanisms currently available to finance AU peace operations, Tanzania was confident that the review would bridge a critical gap that the AU had often brought to the international community's attention.
73. Impunity for crimes against civilian populations perpetrated by combatants from various regions and countries, regardless of their political or organizational affiliation, could not and should not be tolerated. Tanzania also condemned all forms of sexual exploitation and abuse committed by United Nations peacekeeping personnel, and reiterated its support for the Secretary-General's zero-tolerance policy while reaffirming that investigation and prosecution should
lie with the national jurisdictions of the States concerned.
74. Ms. Fofana (Burkina Faso) said that some peacekeeping missions faced asymmetrical threats that impeded the execution of their mandates and posed serious challenges to the safety and security of their peacekeeping personnel. The statistics provided by the Department of Peacekeeping Operations showed a clear increase in the number of casualties from attacks on United Nations personnel. Her delegation paid tribute to all peacekeepers who had lost their lives in the course of their duty and called for peacekeeping self-protection and defence capacities to be strengthened.
75. Burkina Faso recognized and encouraged the international community's peacekeeping efforts in Africa, which faced multiple security threats requiring regional peacekeeping mechanisms when the United Nations system could not immediately respond. International peace and security maintenance had acquired a new dimension with the rise of terrorism; her delegation welcomed the great mobilization of African States to establish a multinational force in the fight against that threat, and reiterated its Government's commitment to participating in that regional effort.
76. A genuine connection between the universal United Nations mechanism and regional mechanisms as part of peacekeeping operations could make those operations more responsive and effective on the ground. Regional initiatives should benefit from the Organization's political, financial and equipment assistance, enabling them to implement effective preventive measures. Her delegation welcomed the prominence of that concern in ongoing debates on the future of peacekeeping operations.
77. Conflict prevention was not a strictly national or local matter. Lack of prevention could, moreover, have great repercussions and significant costs on an international scale. The international community must therefore become truly involved and implement multipronged measures to eliminate the root causes of potential conflict, such as providing development aid; supporting local initiatives related to good governance, promoting human rights and strengthening the rule of law; assistance missions; mediation efforts; and other initiatives aimed at promoting dialogue and reconciliation. Preventive efforts could bring to
15-19323
11/16
A/C.4/70/SR.19
completion and reduce the number and size of peacekeeping operations.
78. Mr. Maleki (Islamic Republic of Iran) said that his Government emphasized the primary role of the General Assembly within the United Nations system in formulating the concepts and policies and discussing ideas related to peacekeeping operations. The Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations was the sole intergovernmental forum mandated to comprehensively review the whole question of United Nations peacekeeping operations.
79. His delegation was fully aware of the need to establish a new mechanism to address the emerging challenges facing United Nations peacekeeping operations. When establishing any such mechanism, however, or deploying a peacekeeping operation or extending the mandate of an existing operation, utmost care must be taken to observe the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations.
80. Noting the reports of the Panel and the Secretary General on the future of United Nations peace operations, his delegation nevertheless stressed that hasty implementation of the recommendations contained in the Panel's report and lack of deliberation by appropriate forums, especially the Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations, could lead to failure in achieving those goals. Peacebuilding activities should contribute to the economic revitalization, development and the national capacity of the host country, based on the principle of national ownership.
81. Civilian protection was mainly the responsibility of the host country and should be guided by the principles of the Charter of United Nations. It should not be used as a pretext for military intervention by the United Nations or any foreign power. Peacekeeping missions should not be turned into peace -enforcement missions. With the exception of self-defence, the use of force could jeopardize the strategic relation between the host country and the peacekeeping mission.
82. The primary responsibility for maintaining peace and security lay with the United Nations. Regional arrangements and agencies should comply with Chapter VIII of the Charter of the United Nations, and should in no way substitute for the Organization or disengage it from its primary responsibility. Building lasting peace and justice, stabilizing the situation and extending State authority in countries that were in or
emerging from conflict should be done on the basis of the rule of law. Any effort to establish or restore that rule should take into account the national ownership, cultural diversity and special characteristics of each country concerned.
83. The use of technology in peacekeeping missions should fully uphold the principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations as well as the fundamental principles of peacekeeping. The legal, operational, technical and financial aspects of the use of modern technology should be determined in an appropriate governmental process with the participation of all Member States.
84. Active involvement of troop-contributing countries in the policy and decision-making process at all stages of peacekeeping operations would create additional incentive for all Member States - and particularly troop-contributing countries - to extend more support to peacekeeping operations. The principle of equitable geographic staffing distribution at all levels at Headquarters and in the field should be fully taken into account, particularly at the expert level and in senior leadership. The United Nations should be able to draw on the potential capacity of its entire membership for peace operations, including troop, military, police and civilian personnel. Any request for States Members' contribution to United Nations peacekeeping missions or special political missions should be transparent and encompass all current and potential troop- and police- contributing countries.
85. Mr. Abdallah (Chad) said that the multitude and intensification of conflicts and the proliferation of small arms and light weapons made peacekeeping operations more complex, dangerous and costly - not only in terms of resources, but also in human lives lost. Chad was among the countries that had suffered the most, having lost dozens of its soldiers in the Africanled International Support Mission in Mali (AFISMA) and subsequently MINUSMA, where it currently had the second largest contingent. As a contributor to many other United Nations peacekeeping operations, particularly in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Cote d'Ivoire and Haiti, Chad favoured any conflict prevention and management initiatives and rapid mission deployment that had adequate logistical support, and only following a thorough analysis of the security environment. His delegation supported all of the relevant recommendations in the reports of the Panel and the Secretary-General.
12/16
15-19323
A/C.4/70/SR.19
86. Despite its considerable experience and resources, the United Nations demonstrably could not face those peace and security challenges alone, particularly in Africa where the vast majority of the Organization's peace operations and uniformed personnel were deployed. It must therefore strengthen its strategic partnership with the African Union, cooperating closely with the regional organization in all peace operations on the continent, in line with Chapter VIII of the Charter of the United Nations. Moreover, the comparative advantages offered by the African Union, in particular its knowledge of the root causes of conflicts and ability to intervene rapidly in crisis situations, had been amply demonstrated. The United Nations' traditional peacekeeping approach needed to be reviewed in light of the current nature of conflicts; peace enforcement was sometimes the better option, as experiences in Somalia, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and in Mali had shown. While the threat of Al-Shabaab had not been entirely eliminated, the Intervention Brigade and the African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM) were widely considered successful. In sharing the burden, the United Nations must provide financial support to the African Union peacekeeping operations authorized by the Security Council.
87. While technology was an undoubted advantage in the field of safety and security, a number of concerns warranted further reflection. Host countries and their neighbours must be given a greater say, particularly with regard to the use of drones, which could raise a number of legal questions pertaining to overflight of territories outside of the theatre of operation during surveillance flights. Similarly, the status of intelligence and aerial images collected must be defined to avoid any misunderstandings regarding their use and conservation. Furthermore, the cost of those machines, which increased the financial burden of peace operations, must be taken into consideration.
88. Mr. Pressman (United States of America) said that the United States saw several key priorities in the Secretary-General's detailed and comprehensive plan for enabling United Nations peacekeepers to carry out their mandates in dangerous and difficult environments. Among those, the protection of civilians remained the central task of peacekeeping missions, and his country recognized the importance of the Kigali Principles at the highest levels. The United States Government had been very conscious of the
critical work being done in United Nations peace operations by specialized protection advisors, who focused on the special needs and vulnerabilities of children and the prevention of and response to conflict related sexual violence. Those issues must receive the continuing attention they deserved.
89. He welcomed the 10th annual meeting of all the Police Commissioners of United Nations peacekeeping operations in New York, and hoped that their valued briefing to the Security Council would also become an annual tradition. The 2015 United Nations Police Week would take place in the context of the Secretary General's call for a full external review of police functions, structure, and capacity, as well as the Police Division's continuing work to develop a strategic guidance framework for United Nations policing and to establish common standards for training and performance for the 110 police-contributing countries. The experience in South Sudan had shown that not all Formed Police Units had the requisite training to manage de facto refugee camps. A strategic guidance framework for United Nations policing and common standards - ambitious undertakings, given the relatively limited resources for both police and rule of law activities - ensured that all contributing countries would have a common police operational background and the leadership skills needed to systemically manage the variety of civilian protection tasks. A common standard for United Nations policing also ensured consistency, particularly with regard to cooperating with and capacity-building of host country police. In Timor-Leste in the early 2000s, the provision of both United Nations police (UNPOL) and bilateral trainers, operating from equally good but incompatible police traditions, had undercut and slowed efforts to develop the Timorese police.
90. Police operations, in conjunction with the development of credible rule -of-law institutions, were essential to building a solid foundation for durable peace that allowed peacekeeping operations to make a smooth transition from post-conflict peacekeeping. There was a particular need to integrate police planning from the beginning and at every stage of peace operations, with a clear understanding of the distinctions between police and military responsibilities, and when there should be a nimble shift between the primacy of police and military functions. That had been recently exhibited in the Central African Republic, where, after recent violence,
15-19323
13/16
A/C.4/70/SR.19
MINUSCA had chosen to have military contingents take the lead in Bangui. That change in structure was an important way to address the changing dynamics in fluid peacekeeping situations. To prevent the resumption of violence - and the possibility of missions becoming mired in simply providing security - it would be necessary to establish civilian police operations, identify gaps and needs, and address them.
91. Regrettably, there had been many appalling reports over the past year of the sexual abuse and exploitation of vulnerable people, including extortion of sex from children, by those who should protect. Leaders of United Nations missions must take seriously their responsibility to enforce the Organization's own regulations. The United Nations was having grave difficulty enforcing prohibitions against transactional sex and exploitative sexual relationships with local residents. The persistent disregard by a few for the welfare of the local community stood in stark contradiction of the basic principles of the Charter of the United Nations. The United States fully supported the Secretary-General's clear plans to prevent and respond to misconduct in the future.
92. Mourning the deaths of 85 courageous peacekeepers - 23 of them from malicious acts - in 2015, he recognized the continued willingness of Member States to participate in and to support the Organization's peacekeeping operations. They had a collective responsibility to ensure the smoothest possible running of those operations, beginning with planning and analysis, timely provision of the requisite resources for missions, built-in flexibility to respond quickly and appropriately to changing circumstances, and the unfailing commitment to stay engaged. It was also vital to support the political steps necessary for peace when conflicts were no longer in the limelight.
93. Mr. Grujic (Serbia) said that peacekeeping operations were more complex than ever before, especially in assisting in the transition from conflict to sustainable peace. Considering the increasingly difficult operational environment and the scope and complexity of demands and challenges, strengthening United Nations peacekeeping capacity and optimizing available resources were essential prerequisites for smoothly running and fulfilling the mandate of field operations. Successful peacekeeping was a shared responsibility requiring collective efforts and, above all, effective cooperation among diverse stakeholders:
United Nations organs, host countries, troop - and police-contributing countries and other relevant actors, especially regional organizations. To strengthen United Nations peacekeeping capabilities and enhance their translation into practical actions and concrete results, the expertise and valuable field experience of troopand police-contributing countries should be incorporated in planning and policy-making processes.
94. As peacekeeping operations were one of the most important instruments for ensuring lasting peace, Serbia therefore attached great importance to the key role of the United Nations in promoting and maintaining international peace and security. However, institutional reform was necessary, as was support for efforts to increase the efficiency and operability of peacekeeping missions, including through the use of modern technology, linking security and development, better protection of peacekeeping missions in the field, and ensuring greater participation of women in all phases of peacekeeping and peace -building processes. Serbia thus welcomed the Secretary-General's report and the Panel's recommendations, which provided a solid basis for common activities and highlighted key issues to be reviewed. At the same time, for the successful continuation of the whole process, there must be system-wide involvement in the implementation of the reports' recommendations. Serbia strongly supported a more comprehensive, cross-cutting approach, and mutual cooperation among main stakeholders.
95. As a reliable member of the international community and an active contributor to United Nations peacekeeping operations, Serbia had demonstrated its commitment to the Organization's fundamental goal of establishing and safeguarding international peace and security. It ranked among the top European troop contributors, with almost 350 Serbian men and women participating in peacekeeping missions all over the world, as well as in European Union missions. At the Leaders' Summit, his country had pledged to increase its participation in future United Nations peacekeeping operations, in the firm belief that such operations were vital for international peace and security. As the current Chair of the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE), Serbia also attached great importance to the role of regional organizations in peacekeeping missions and to strengthening their partnerships with global organizations. Serbia was firmly committed to promoting sustainable peace and
14/16
15-19323
A/C.4/70/SR.19
development, which was the basis for reconciliation, understanding, stability and conflict prevention.
96. He hoped that the Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations, which played a vital role in devising the way forward for United Nations peacekeeping policy, would continue to render strategic guidance, based on consensus and within timelines set for its yearly activities. He commended all United Nations peacekeepers who risked their lives daily and saluted those who had made the ultimate sacrifice for the noble goals of peace and security.
97. Mr. Meflan (Croatia) welcomed and commended the timely reports of the Panel and the Secretary General, as the international community faced an unprecedented proliferation of armed conflicts, acts of terrorism and violent extremism, forced displacement, and migration and humanitarian crises. A comprehensive and thorough analysis was therefore needed to help United Nations peacekeeping adapt to contemporary challenges and realities; the success of peace operations depended on their change and reform. His delegation was confident that the reports would be the foundation for increased effectiveness of United Nations peace operations and enhanced synergy between all components.
98. The mandates of peace operations should be clear and realistic, specifying tasks to be accomplished in order to improve performance. Operations should be custom-designed based on their specific contexts, and their human, political and financial resources should be used in the most efficient and transparent way. Furthermore, their focus should be on the protection of civilians and the most vulnerable in conflicts: women, children and the elderly. The protection of civilians was a crucial and often decisive dimension for the success and legitimacy of United Nations peacekeeping operations. Failures and successes of the past must serve as lessons for the future: Srebrenica must never be repeated.
99. His delegation stressed the need for active and meaningful participation of women in conflict prevention, conflict resolution and peace processes, as well as in decision-making in those areas. Gender and respect for human rights should be mainstreamed into all peace operations and reflected in mission mandates. The prevention of sexual and gender-based violence must be a priority. Croatia was particularly concerned about accusations of sexual exploitation and abuse by
some peacekeeping troops;. such unacceptable conduct should be thoroughly and rapidly investigated, publicly denounced, and the perpetrators held accountable.
100. The strong linkage between security and development should remain constantly in focus. Once a conflict was contained and the peacekeeping mission operative, timely and clearly defined development efforts must be undertaken, in line with the Secretary General's report, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, other review processes of the peacebuilding architecture, and Security Council resolution 1325 (2000). United Nations peacekeeping operations covered all phases of the conflict cycle, comprising prevention, peacekeeping, peacemaking, peacebuilding and reconstruction and development, all of which were linked and required equal attention. Croatia welcomed the Secretary-General's call to centre international peace and security on prevention and mediation and to strengthen the Organization's mediation and crisis-prevention tools for faster and more cost-effective responses.
101. In 2014 Croatia had organized and covered the costs for pre-deployment training of female police officers from countries outside Western Europe, allowing it to share not only lessons learned and expertise, but also to promote gender inclusion and the role of women in peacekeeping efforts. It would continue organizing such training, and had recently contributed a Horizontal Construction Engineering battalion to United Nations peacekeeping forces. Croatia stood ready and determined to continue to contribute actively to making United Nations peacekeeping even more efficient.
102. Mr. Zamora Rivas (El Salvador) said that effective peacekeeping operations required, above all, political support of Member States, as well as suitable human, financial and logistical resources, realistic mandates clearly defined by the Security Council prior to deployment, clear exit strategies, and must proceed from a thorough evaluation. Peacekeeping operations were not a goal in themselves, but rather temporary measures to create a secure environment in which to implement a long-term strategy for sustainable development. They should be based solely on conditions in and the national capacities of the country concerned; their success depended on the participation of the people in their drafting. Any new peacekeeping operation or extension of an existing operation should be guided by the basic principles of peacekeeping and
15-19323
15/16
A/C.4/70/SR.19
adhere to the principles of the Charter of the United Nations, in particular sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence of States and non-intervention in their domestic affairs.
103. While the protection of civilians remained the responsibility of the host country, it should be the priority of all missions. His delegation recognized the importance of peacekeeping operations policy in protecting populations affected by conflict. However, civilian protection mandates must be clearly defined and linked to political strategies at the outset, and the relationship between United Nations troops and other military actors in the field must be clearly established.
104. El Salvador supported all initiatives aimed at
increasing the participation of women in peacekeeping contingents, in line with Security Council resolution 1325 (2000). Conditions conducive to their
involvement in decision-making at all levels, and their greater integration in all phases of missions, must be put in place, for which the Secretary-General should be accountable. Additionally, El Salvador rejected all human-rights violations committed by peacekeepers; cases of sexual abuse of women and children must be addressed urgently and transparently and violators must be prosecuted in accordance with law. His country fully supported the Secretary-General's zerotolerance policy.
105. While supporting the use of technology, such as drones, to carry out monitoring activities and improve the efficiency of peacekeeping operations in complex situations, his country was of the view that such technology should be regulated by normative instruments and its use should not violate the principles of the Charter of the United Nations.
106. With the deployment of its first contingent to MINUSMA, El Salvador had embarked on a new phase of its traditional participation in peace operations in Liberia, the Sudan, South Sudan, Cote d'Ivoire, Lebanon Western Sahara and Haiti. While continuing to contribute police and troops to the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti (MINUSTAH), it reiterated the importance of extending the mission's mandate to 2016, and underlined the need for adequate coordination between MINUSTAH and the Haitian Government in order to ensure a responsible and comprehensive transition process. His delegation joined others in calling for strengthened interaction between host countries and peacekeeping operations;
active participation of troop-contributing countries in decision-making processes; efficient and timely reimbursement of troop-contributing countries; and the separation of the budget for special political missions from the regular budget, with the creation of a separate fund. Efficient and autonomous mechanisms to investigate human rights violations by United Nations staff should also be established. Paying tribute to all peacekeepers who had been injured or fallen in the line of duty, he reiterated El Salvador's commitment to providing the best support and personnel it could to peacekeeping missions.
107. Mr. Halfaoui (Morocco), speaking in exercise of the right of the reply, said that the Algerian representative should learn more about the issue under consideration and avoid misleading the Committee. It was widely known that MINURSO had not been the only mission without a human rights monitoring mandate: that had been the case in six of the Organization's 16 missions. Furthermore, his delegation had been surprised by the Algerian representative's pontificating on human rights, as that country refused entry to leading international humanrights NGOs, did not cooperate with the Human Rights Council, and continued to treat Special Rapporteurs as personae non grata. It was time for the United Nations to examine more closely the human rights violations committed by Algerian authorities against Kabyle populations in particular. Furthermore, it was telling that Algeria never contributed to any United Nations or African peacekeeping missions but had welcomed increased European Union contribution to African Union peace and security efforts.
108. Mr. Remaoun (Algeria), speaking on a point of order, said the agenda item under consideration did not concern Algeria, and asked the representative to restrict his comments to that item.
109. The Chair asked the Moroccan representative to observe the point of order.
110. Mr. Halfaoui (Morocco) noted that his statement in right of reply would not have been necessary had the debate not strayed from the agenda, and reiterated that Algeria did not contribute - but welcomed others' contributions - to international peace efforts, while it spent billions annually on defence, far outstripping the overall United Nations peacekeeping budget.
The meeting rose at 5.55 p.m.
16/16
15-19323