United Nations
A/c .4/69/SR.18
General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
Official Records
Distr.: General 20 January 2015
Original: English
Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee)
Summary record of the 18th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Friday, 31 October 2014, at 10 a.m.
Chair: Mr. Bhattarai (Nepal)
Contents
Agenda item 52: Comprehensive review of the whole question of peacekeeping operations in all their aspects (continued)
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Control Unit (srcorrections@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
14-63728 (E)
I mill 1 HI HI IIllllllllllllllllllll
Please recycle
A/C.4/69/SR.18
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 52: Comprehensive review of the whole question of peacekeeping operations in all their aspects (continued)
1. Mr. Cabactulan (Philippines) said that peacekeepers increasingly faced significant challenges and complex operating environments. In the case of some missions, elements that had not been considered during the formulation of mandates, such as anti-Government armed groups and pandemics, threatened to undermine successful mandate implementation. Member States therefore needed to work together to ensure that mandates responded to current conditions and were successfully implemented, and that the policy, structural and operational architecture of peacekeeping was duly supported.
2. His delegation was encouraged by the fact that the Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations had finally produced its report (A/68/19) and looked forward to the implementation of its recommendations, including on the safety and security of peacekeepers. The Philippines had been a troop- and policecontributing country for more than 50 years, in accordance with its international commitments and sovereign interests, and Philippine troops were currently deployed in four peacekeeping missions.
3. Any debate on peacekeeping operations must be based on the premise that stakeholders should make every effort to settle disputes peacefully, in accordance with the provisions of Chapter VI of the Charter of the United Nations. Capacity-building before, during and after deployment should be maintained. Collaboration with the Department of Peacekeeping Operations and with other States was essential. Over the last two years, the Philippines had been cooperating closely with the Department on a training for trainers programme. Bilateral and triangular cooperation between Member States and the Department deserved greater attention so that interest was transformed into specific projects. Peacekeeping efforts should be supported through clear mandates and adequate resources. His delegation welcomed the increase in the standard troop reimbursement rate and noted that the gradual approach emphasized by the Philippines had been crucial to building consensus on the matter. It also recognized the need for an institutional mechanism for dialogue between troop- and police-contributing countries, the Security Council and the Secretariat, and
reiterated its call for transparent, active, open and regular dialogue between those stakeholders.
4. Events in the Golan Heights in 2014 had demonstrated the vulnerability of peacekeepers. The freedom of movement of peacekeeping personnel from Fiji and the Philippines in the United Nations Disengagement Observer Force (UNDOF) had been seriously compromised. While the Philippines was grateful to all partners and stakeholders who had worked for the safe release of those peacekeepers, the situation was unacceptable and his delegation remained gravely concerned at the growing frequency of such incidents, the numbers of peacekeepers detained, and the increasing length of time they were held captive. Other incidents had included the killing or wounding of 31 peacekeepers from the United Nations Multidimensional Integration Stabilization Mission in Mali (MINUSMA). The Philippines condemned all such acts against peacekeepers, underscored the need for timely coordination and assistance in the event of a crisis and called for the international community to work together to respond to threats. It proposed discussions on outstanding operational and tactical issues, including United Nations command and control during kidnapping and sieges, the accountability of mission leaders for decisions made during crisis operations and multidimensional contingency plans.
5. His delegation welcomed the forthcoming establishment of the High-Level Independent Panel on Peace Operations announced by the Secretary-General and wished to know the arrangements for appointments to the Panel. The Philippines stood ready to share its experience, with a view to making recommendations that would strengthen the safety and security of peacekeepers. Human health was one aspect that must be taken into account, since pandemics and disease were emerging threats. Sustained efforts should be made to enhance the ability of peacekeeping missions to address pandemics, while care must also be taken, through effective standard operating procedures, to ensure that peacekeepers did not leave behind a footprint that negatively affected the health of local populations. All Member States must redouble their efforts to ensure the safety of peacekeepers on the ground.
6. Mr. Pressman (United States of America) said that United Nations peacekeeping operations were present in a variety of difficult environments and that new structures such as the Intervention Brigade in the
2/16
14-63728
A/C.4/69/SR.18
Democratic Republic of the Congo were taking offensive action against belligerent forces. Peacekeepers had offered life-saving assistance and hope to hundreds of thousands of persons and 104 had lost their lives in 2014. While the heroism of peacekeeping personnel should be honoured, peacekeeping operations must become more effective. Tools and capabilities had not kept pace with the demands placed on peacekeeping, which faced multiple, simultaneous crises in complex operating environments that were driving demand for peacekeepers to an all-time high. United Nations peacekeeping operations suffered from problems including poor planning, slow deployment, weak leadership and uneven commitment to the implementation of mandates, especially regarding the protection of civilians.
7. His delegation welcomed the Secretary-General's timely announcement of a comprehensive review of United Nations peace operations and agreed that the gap between missions' ambitions and their ability to deliver should be assessed. The review must consider the full spectrum of activities, including peacebuilding, special political missions and the activities of other United Nations bodies, including country teams. In order to achieve genuine reform, the United Nations must be frank about institutional obstacles. The review should identify ways to improve the use of global talent, match troop contributors to missions and reform force generation. Rapid deployment was critical, as seen in South Sudan, where ten months after the Security Council had authorized an emergency increase in troops the mission was still not at full strength. The timelines for deployment must shrink because lives depended on it. Peacekeepers deployed to complex environments, including places where there was no peace to keep, needed the right skills and training to deal with threats to themselves and civilians. The United States of America was pleased that an information fusion unit and unmanned unarmed aerial vehicles were helping to identify and mitigate asymmetric threats in Mali and noted that the Ebola outbreak had shown the need for fail-safe medical evacuation capabilities. All countries must do more in that respect.
8. Peacekeepers should operate under a common doctrine and his delegation welcomed work by the Department of Peacekeeping Operations and Member States to develop such standards as the Strategic
Guidance Framework for International Police Peacekeeping. It also welcomed the fact that the Office for the Peacekeeping Strategic Partnership was operational and stressed the importance of empowering it to allow the Department of Peacekeeping Operations and the Department of Field Support to address issues that affected peacekeepers. United Nations peacekeeping would benefit from oversight and the independent assessment of its vulnerabilities.
9. Too many missions struggled to implement their mandate to protect civilians and routinely failed to use force to protect civilians under attack. The Office of Internal Oversight Services report on the evaluation of the implementation and results of protection of civilians mandates in United Nations peacekeeping operations (A/68/787) had highlighted that troop contingents sometimes refused to follow orders to protect civilians. That must stop in order for United Nations peacekeeping to be credible. A major structural issue was that missions often had two chains of command: one stretching back to troop-contributing countries and one answering to the Department of Peacekeeping Operations. Although the report had recommended that failures to follow orders should be reported to United Nations Headquarters, that alone would not solve the problem. The forthcoming review of peace operations should therefore address the issue and propose ways to remedy it. Peacekeepers had a responsibility to act when civilians faced imminent risk and the United Nations should not be a bystander to crimes that shocked the conscience. The implementation of Security Council mandates to protect civilians was critical to stopping cycles of violence and retribution and was how the world judged the work of the United Nations.
10. Ms. Adhikari (Nepal) said that contemporary peacekeeping missions were a flagship function of the United Nations with complex mandates to address intra-State conflicts and activities ranging from the protection of civilians and security sector reform to promoting human rights and women's empowerment. Since 1958, more than 100,000 Nepalese peacekeepers had served in demanding conditions and 69 had lost their lives in the line of duty. Responsibility for peacekeeping must be shared between the General Assembly, the Security Council, the troop- and policecontributing countries, regional organizations, the host country and the Secretariat. Effective peacekeeping required triangular cooperation between the Security
14-63728
3/16
A/C.4/69/SR.18
Council, troop- and police-contributing countries and the Secretariat in policy formulation and decisionmaking, and greater attention should be paid to the economic, social and political causes of conflicts. Clear, objective and achievable mandates, adequate financial resources and capabilities, wide political support and clear exit strategies were the only means of ensuring the success of peacekeeping missions. Troop- and police-contributing countries should be involved in peacekeeping missions, as a priority, from the planning phase. National ownership of peacekeeping efforts and a wide regional support base were crucial to success. Integrating elements of peacebuilding into peacekeeping operations from the start was vital to sustaining peace and preventing a relapse into violence. Furthermore, the complementary roles of security and development for sustainable peace and development must be fully understood.
11. The United Nations should observe the basic principles of peacekeeping, namely the consent of the parties, impartiality and the non-use of force except in self-defence and in defence of the mandate. It should not allow mandates authorizing the use of force to become a trend, because they could erode legitimacy, risk the lives of unarmed peacekeepers and make scapegoats of peacekeepers and troop-contributing countries. The scale of deployment, complex mandates and the involvement of multiple actors demanded the highest degree of coordination, effective resource mobilization and the results-based execution of operations on the ground. Peacekeeping operations required dynamic reform. The benefits of the global field support strategy should be mainstreamed into the ongoing work of the Department of Field Support before its implementation period came to an end in June 2015.
12. Nepal reaffirmed its commitment to Security Council resolution 1674 (2006) on protection of civilians in armed conflict, but noted that the ability to protect civilians was undermined by the absence of accurate and timely information, the lack of troops with all-weather mobility, equipment and resources, and the lack of air assets, including helicopters. Financial, operational and logistical needs in the field should be assessed and met in advance, and critical air and technological assets should be provided for in the form of standby commitments. In addition, more Member States should commit personnel to peacekeeping. Given the risks and difficulties faced by
peacekeepers, her delegation welcomed the increase in rates of reimbursement to troop-contributing countries and the decision to set a single rate of reimbursement for all countries, while it reiterated the need to establish a mechanism to periodically review those rates. The safety and security of peacekeeping personnel was the responsibility of both the host country and the United Nations and should be accorded the highest priority from the planning phase.
13. Her delegation recognized the positive role that women played in peacekeeping operations and supported gender mainstreaming in all peacekeeping missions. Her Government intended to deploy more women in peacekeeping missions, considering that their presence would particularly benefit missions where gender-based violence and the exploitation of women and children were prevalent. A zero-tolerance policy on sexual exploitation and abuse was enforced among Nepalese peacekeepers, who received extensive training on human rights. The Birendra Peace Operations Training Centre in Nepal had been instrumental in that regard. Her delegation welcomed the Secretary-General's intention to conduct a comprehensive review of United Nations peacekeeping operations and stood ready to contribute to the work of the High-level Independent Panel on Peace Operations. The Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations was the sole intergovernmental body mandated to formulate and review policies in that regard. The review should take place hand in hand with the planned review of the peacekeeping architecture and all reform measures should be implemented in a holistic manner.
14. Mr. Al-Hamadi (Qatar) said that peacekeeping operations must abide by the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations to promote collective security through multilateral action and should uphold the guidelines established for peacekeeping, including respect for the sovereignty of States. Peacekeeping operations should adhere scrupulously to their mandates, in order to preserve the credibility of United Nations peacekeeping, and should work closely with host countries in the implementation of their mandates. Peacekeeping operations were not a substitute for addressing the root causes of conflict or managing a crisis, but they could help establish an environment that was conducive to addressing the crisis.
15. His delegation acknowledged the importance of using capability assessments, since a lack of resources
4/16
14-63728
A/C.4/69/SR.18
frequently hindered the effectiveness of peacekeeping operations and could put missions in danger. The safety and security of personnel should be a priority, particularly when deploying missions in areas with chronic political problems, and peacekeepers must be protected by laws that provided for the prosecution of those who committed crimes against them. The Special Committee, which remained the key forum for discussing current and emerging peacekeeping developments and challenges, should be reactivated and revived. Furthermore, cooperation between that Committee, the Fifth and Sixth Committees of the General Assembly, and the Security Council should be fostered. Contact between peacekeeping forces and local populations would be facilitated by taking into account the linguistic, cultural and other specific characteristics of host countries. Since the majority of peacekeeping personnel came from developing countries, those countries should be involved in all stages of planning for peacekeeping operations.
16. Mr. Kim Taedong (Republic of Korea) said that deliberate attacks on peacekeepers in Darfur and the Central African Republic clearly pointed to the increasingly dangerous and hostile environment in which they operated. The Governments of the Sudan and the Central African Republic should swiftly investigate those incidents and bring the persons responsible to justice. There had been significant changes in peacekeeping operations since 2013, notably in South Sudan, the Central African Republic, the Golan Heights, Liberia and West Africa.
17. In view of the need to develop capability, his delegation welcomed the introduction of modern technology to peacekeeping operations, included the use of unmanned aerial vehicles by the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUSCO). Their application in other appropriate missions could enhance intelligence capacities and security. Transparency on the use of new technology should be improved, however, and information on unmanned aerial vehicles and their performance should be shared with Member States. Given the force generation and rapid deployment challenges faced over the previous year by the United Nations Mission in South Sudan (UNMISS), in response to surge demand, and the African-led International Support Mission in the Central African Republic (MISCA), which had undergone rehatting and fresh generation, it was to be
hoped that the lessons learned would be shared with Member States as soon as those missions had been stabilized. Threats to peacekeepers called for new standards on equipment and armaments and new guidance on self-defence and security procedures, bearing in mind the potential budgetary implications and impact on force availability.
18. Since a swift response from regional players was critical to the early stabilization of conflict, the coordinated response by the United Nations, the Economic Community of Central African States and the African Union to the situation in the Central African Republic could be a useful case study on the effective sequencing of peacekeeping activities. The partnership for peacekeeping between the African Union and the European Union was also worthy of attention, since it facilitated a rapid and flexible response to the situation in the field. Given the slow pace of peace processes on the ground, his delegation had high expectations for the review to be conducted by the High-Level Independent Panel on Peace Operations.
19. The Republic of Korea had actively contributed to peacekeeping programmes since joining the United Nations in 1991, having provided some 12,000 personnel for missions in Western Sahara, Angola, Timor-Leste and Haiti. In 2013, an engineering unit had been deployed to UNMISS and an infantry battalion had been serving in the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL) since 2007. Peacekeeping was a flagship activity of the United Nations and it was essential that Member States shared that responsibility.
20. Mr. Iliichev (Russian Federation) said that swift political change, the growth in conflicts, and new threats and challenges rendered United Nations peacekeeping more necessary than ever. The blue helmets increasingly served in complex and dangerous situations of internal political crisis exacerbated by armed confrontation, difficult socioeconomic conditions and the spread of weapons, terrorism, organized crime and threats to peacekeepers. The main guidelines for peacekeeping remained the provisions of the Charter of the United Nations and the basic principles of peacekeeping. Security Council mandates should be clear and realistic. Despite the trend towards more robust peacekeeping mandates, the preventive use of force and offensive operations by the Intervention Brigade of MONUSCO had revealed
14-63728
5/16
A/C.4/69/SR.18
legal, technical and logistical problems indicating that the widespread application of that approach would be premature and could adversely impact the effectiveness of missions, the image of the United Nations and the security of peacekeeping contingents. His delegation considered that the decision to strengthen a particular peacekeeping mandate could be taken by the Security Council based on the operational situation in the country concerned; the priority for peacekeepers must remain the establishment of political dialogue and national reconciliation. His delegation did not view peacekeeping solely through the prism of the protection of civilians and provision of humanitarian assistance, for which it considered the State concerned to be primarily responsible. It was unacceptable to use those tasks as justification for external military intervention that served the political ends of individual States.
21. The use of modern technology, including the experimental deployment of unmanned aerial vehicles, required the development of a political and legal framework and budgetary resources, and raised questions about control over the information gathered and its confidentiality. The use of unmanned aerial vehicles should be comprehensively studied. All the issues and lessons learned should be reflected in the annex to the annual report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of the recommendations of the Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations and should be the subject of substantive discussion among Member States. His delegation hoped to receive impartial and technically verified results from the Expert Panel on Technology and Innovation in United Nations Peacekeeping, which should take into account the views of Member States, including troopcontributing countries.
22. Addressing the worsening security situation for peacekeepers - caused by the growth of terrorism in deployment zones and the risk of attack by parties to the conflict, host country forces or other elements - should be a priority for all, including the Secretariat and mission leadership. In particular, UNMISS faced a difficult security situation and, on 26 August 2014, a Russian helicopter working under contract had been destroyed outside Bentiu, killing three Russian citizens. An objective and transparent investigation into the incident should be conducted, including to verify adherence to the safety regulations for flights, and those responsible must be brought to justice.
Appropriate additional measures should be taken to prevent similar tragedies from occurring in the future.
23. Functions in peacekeeping and post-conflict peacebuilding should be clearly delineated and peacekeepers should address the root causes of conflicts, in order to prevent them from reoccurring. Social, humanitarian and human rights matters required the maximum possible involvement of the specialized structures of the United Nations and regional organizations, with functions clearly divided between headquarters and the field, in order to avoid duplication of effort. The timely development of exit strategies would improve the effectiveness of missions and prevent the undesirable side effects of peacekeepers becoming too close to internal political structures.
24. Effective cooperation with regional and subregional organizations could add value to United Nations peacekeeping. As the current chair of the Collective Security Treaty Organization, the Russian Federation wished to emphasize its focus on multifaceted cooperation with the United Nations, including in the sphere of peacekeeping. His delegation shared the view that ongoing dialogue was needed between the Security Council and troop-contributing countries on all aspects of peacekeeping operations, including the planning and mandate development stages. The Military Staff Committee could provide appropriate military expertise on the steps taken as part of peacekeeping operations. At the Security Council open debate on trends in peacekeeping organized by the Russian Federation in June 2014, a common understanding had emerged regarding the need for broad discussion among Member States and the Secretariat to establish an integrated, balanced and consistent approach to peacekeeping. The Special Committee was the body mandated to provide the Secretariat with policy guidance on peacekeeping.
25. Mr. Ben Sliman (Tunisia) said that, given increasing casualties among United Nations peacekeepers and the growing threat from non-State actors and armed groups, the international community must consider how to improve the safety of peacekeeping troops. Thorough discussion was also needed within the relevant United Nations bodies and with troop-contributing countries in order to develop a balanced approach to the changing nature of peacekeeping operations. Furthermore, transparency and dialogue were needed to reinforce and defend the
6/16
14-63728
A/C.4/69/SR.18
principles underpinning those operations. His delegation supported the Secretary-General's proposal to conduct a strategic review of United Nations peacekeeping. Troop-contributing countries should participate in decision-making, policy formulation and changes to mission mandates, thereby contributing to the effectiveness of peacekeeping operations, and decisions should be taken on the basis of consensus. Greater coordination and interaction between the Security Council, the Peacebuilding Commission and other United Nations bodies should reinforce the efficiency of peacekeeping operations. The Security Council needed to interact more with troopcontributing countries and take advantage of the experience they had acquired. More effective field support coordination was also needed, based on a clear understanding of a given operation's mandate. Multidimensional peacekeeping operations should be conducted in accordance with a clear, realistic and achievable Security Council mandate and host Governments should contribute to devising national political strategies.
26. Tunisia favoured strengthened cooperation between the United Nations and regional organizations, notably the African Union, based on Chapter VIII of the Charter of the United Nations. Adequate funding should be allocated to peacekeeping to help meet increasing demands on peacekeepers, which included peacebuilding duties. The issue of rates of reimbursement to troop-contributing countries should continue to be accorded the utmost importance and, in that regard, his delegation welcomed the adoption by consensus of General Assembly resolution 68/281. Tunisia was firmly committed to United Nations peacekeeping and stood ready to increase its contribution to peacekeeping missions.
27. Ms. Battungalag (Mongolia) said that her country was committed to enhancing its participation in United Nations peacekeeping and approximately 1,000 Mongolians were currently serving in six peacekeeping missions. Her delegation welcomed the Secretary-General's call for a strategic review of United Nations peacekeeping operations and hoped that a collective approach would be taken. A candid assessment of the strengths and weaknesses of the existing peacekeeping architecture, and recommendations for tangible change, would require an inclusive process. Since troop-contributing countries carried the ultimate responsibility for the
success of missions, they should be involved in decision-making processes. Timely trilateral consultations and coordination between the Security Council, the troop-contributing countries and the Secretariat should be strengthened to increase a common understanding of policy matters and address gaps between mandates and their implementation on the ground.
28. In the light of the worsening security situation for many missions, the safety and security of United Nations personnel should be given a high priority. Mongolia condemned targeted attacks and all violence against United Nations peacekeepers. Steps should be taken to ensure that all peacekeepers were adequately trained, equipped and prepared to fulfil their mandates. The United Nations should establish the highest possible medical standards and provide guidance on protecting peacekeepers in the field from infectious diseases, including Ebola. While the primary responsibility to protect civilians lay with the host Government, missions should have clear strategies and a common understanding of their civilian protection obligations. Mongolian experience in the field indicated that peacekeeping missions needed further guidance in that regard.
29. The diligence and professionalism of peacekeeping personnel should be matched by adequate financial resources. Her delegation welcomed the adoption of General Assembly resolution 68/281, but noted that the increase in the rate of reimbursement to troop-contributing countries was far from adequate. The Special Committee was the only United Nations forum mandated to comprehensively review all aspects of peacekeeping operations and provide overall policy guidance, and, following the results achieved during its previous session, her delegation looked forward to continued engagement and flexibility to ensure the success of its upcoming session.
30. Mr. Mana (Cameroon) said that the maintenance of international peace and security now required a deeper understanding of peace and conflict and a consensus on the initiatives authorized by the international community. Such consensus was much more difficult to obtain than in the past since peacekeeping no longer merely involved ceasefire monitoring but required the consolidation of peace and the rebuilding of collapsed States; missions were also increasingly called on to contribute to such tasks as organizing elections and protecting human rights. His
14-63728
7/16
A/C.4/69/SR.18
delegation therefore welcomed the discussion, consultation and reform processes undertaken by the Security Council, the General Assembly, the SecretaryGeneral and troop-contributing countries, and called for follow-up to those processes, in agreement with the Governments concerned. It was important that discussion processes led to shared conclusions that would renew an effective partnership between all actors in the field of peacekeeping. The difficulty of reaching consensus had been demonstrated during the triennial review of the rates and standards for reimbursement to Member States for contingent-owned equipment. Similarly, the General Assembly, in resolution 68/281, had not taken into account the conclusions and recommendations of the Senior Advisory Group on rates of reimbursement to troopcontributing countries and related issues. The Special Committee had become a battleground for divergent interests, distancing it from its original purpose. His delegation reaffirmed the importance of obtaining the agreement of the parties to a conflict prior to deployment and of respect for the principles of sovereignty, territorial integrity, limited use of force and clear well-defined mandates. Unfortunately, those principles were sometimes misused, for example by the abusive use of technology to collect information for purposes other than peacekeeping.
31. Cameroon had a long tradition of seeking peace and stability, and since the 1990s had contributed troops, police and prison staff to several United Nations peacekeeping operations. Currently, close to 1,500 Cameroonian defence and security personnel were deployed in United Nations missions and the force commander of the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic (MINUSCA) was Cameroonian. In September 2014, Cameroon had signed a memorandum with the United Nations on the presence of MINUSCA personnel in, and their transit through, Cameroonian territory.
32. In 2008, Cameroon had established the International School for Security Forces to train civil and security force personnel for United Nations peacekeeping missions. The school had held international seminars for police, gendarme and civilian personnel from African countries and offered qualifications in security and peacekeeping at all levels of tertiary education, including a Master's degree in international security that was provided in partnership
with the Institute of International Relations of Cameroon. A training exercise on multidimensional missions had been held by the School in March and April 2014 and had focused on consolidating political processes, managing violence and supporting humanitarian actions in a destabilized situation. It had been attended by 555 members of police and gendarmerie forces from 19 francophone African countries and five European countries, as well as experts from international organizations and nongovernmental organizations. Cameroon thanked its development partners for their support in the area of peace and security, and hoped for increased support in the future.
33. His delegation urged discussion on the need to build the capacity of peacekeeping forces prior to deployment; such capacity-building should focus on crisis management, familiarity with the host country, including its culture and the causes of conflict, and knowledge of the principles of the United Nations, in order to increase effectiveness on the ground. The contributions of the African States, whose troops had come to form the backbone of peacekeeping operations, should be duly recognized and more attention should be given to the financial burden assumed by troop-contributing countries.
34. Ms. Richards (Jamaica) said that peacekeeping was a key component of the Organization's efforts to achieve international peace and security. Jamaica had contributed police officers and civilians to United Nations peacekeeping missions in various parts of the world, including 12 police officers in the last two years. As a member of the Caribbean Community, Jamaica supported the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti (MINUSTAH) and welcomed Security Council resolution 2180 (2014), which had extended its mandate. As noted in the report of the SecretaryGeneral on the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti (S/2014/617), Haiti was at an important juncture in the consolidation of stability and democracy. Despite tremendous strides forward, the international community must remain actively engaged with the Government and people of Haiti to consolidate progress, given the weakness of State institutions, political uncertainty and high levels of extreme poverty. The political impasse over the holding of elections further underscored the importance of the Mission's continued presence.
8/16
14-63728
A/C.4/69/SR.18
35. Peacekeeping must be reinforced by peacebuilding to help States avoid a relapse into conflict and chart a course to sustainable peace, stability and development. United Nations funds and programmes that worked closely with Governments were critical to progress in States emerging from conflict and close collaboration between the Peacebuilding Commission and peacekeeping operations should be emphasized to ensure smooth transitions. Building national capacity to ensure that Governments could effectively manage their affairs in the post-conflict phase should underpin peacebuilding throughout the life of the mission. The importance of South-South cooperation, triangular partnerships and regional and subregional organizations should be emphasized in that regard. Her delegation commended the efforts of the Department of Peacekeeping Operations and the Department of Field Support to respond to reported cases of sexual misconduct by United Nations peacekeeping personnel and encouraged the implementation of the SecretaryGeneral's zero-tolerance policy with respect to sexual exploitation or abuse by peacekeepers.
36. Jamaica had been actively involved in the adoption of Security Council resolution 1325 (2000) and continued to support the participation of women in peacekeeping and peacebuilding. Her delegation noted the progress made in the implementation of that resolution and encouraged the Department of Peacekeeping Operations to continue its efforts to increase the number of female officers in peacekeeping missions. It also commended the Department's efforts to implement training, including training for trainers, to better equip peacekeepers for the realities of the twenty-first century. The Department must increase capacity-building, employ early warning mechanisms and use innovative technology to overcome the heightened risks and multidimensional challenges confronted by peacekeeping missions. There should be frequent interaction between force commanders and the Security Council, so that Member States were made aware of the specific challenges faced and how they could better support peacekeepers.
37. Ms. Sughayar (Jordan) said that her delegation appreciated the humanitarian role that peacekeeping operations played in the protection of civilians and the re-establishment of peace and security in conflict areas. Peacekeeping operations had proven their effectiveness as a tool for maintaining international
peace and security and their role had evolved over time; they were a humanitarian and moral obligation as a means of preventing conflict and reinforcing the development, humanitarian, security and political role of the United Nations and its specialized agencies.
38. Mission mandates should include peacebuilding and the reconstruction of damaged areas, enforcement of the rule of law and democracy, protection of human rights and prevention of attacks, including sexual assaults. Peacekeeping and peacebuilding should complement each other and peacebuilding efforts should be based on cooperation with local authorities, in order to ensure the smooth transfer of tasks to those authorities. Peacebuilding was not, however, a substitute for the rehabilitation of local troops and should be based on a comprehensive and objective assessment of the security situation in the host country. The capacity of peacekeeping troops should be enhanced, in accordance with the criteria set by the United Nations, and, in addition to the provision of appropriate protection for troops, political, legal, social and economic expertise should be made available so that host countries could receive assistance regarding national reforms, sustainable development, terrorist groups and epidemics. Member States, particularly troop-contributing countries, should participate in decision-making on the deployment of peacekeeping missions and there should be more constructive dialogue with troop-contributing countries in order to develop a clear strategy for ensuring that forces were appropriately equipped.
39. Jordan fully supported the involvement of women in peacekeeping operations. It also favoured the introduction of advanced technology, which should be used in accordance with the law, and urged greater funding of peacekeeping missions, since their tasks had increased. Bearing in mind that the 2014/15 peacekeeping budget, which was approximately 7 billion dollars, significantly exceeded the regular budget of the United Nations, a comprehensive strategy should be established to review spending in order to ensure the best possible use of resources. Her delegation stood ready to cooperate with the High-level Independent Panel on Peace Operations and hoped that the outcome of its review would provide a basis for improving the performance of peacekeeping missions and determining their nature and priorities. Jordan remained committed to United Nations peacekeeping operations, and was a prominent troop-contributing
14-63728
9/16
A/C.4/69/SR.18
country, with 2,314 troops serving in nine missions, mostly in Africa.
40. Mr. Lasso Mendoza (Ecuador) said that one of the main concerns with regard to peacekeeping was the heightened complexity of mandates and the consequent deployment of blue helmets in increasingly difficult and dangerous circumstances. Broad triangular cooperation was therefore needed between the Security Council, the Secretariat and troop- and policecontributing countries, in order to facilitate informed decision-making that would ensure the sustainability, security and success of peacekeeping operations. The report of the Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations (A/68/19) had underscored the value of a productive relationship among those who mandated, planned, managed and implemented United Nations peacekeeping operations and had recommended the early involvement of troop- and police-contributing countries in all stages of peacekeeping operations, in particular before the renewal, adjustment, reconfiguration or drawdown of an operation by the Security Council. The Special Committee was the only United Nations body mandated to discuss and develop strategies, concepts and policies on peacekeeping; the importance of its work was in part related to the consensual nature of its recommendations, with broad participation by Member States, including troopcontributing countries. The legitimacy of peacekeeping operations was built from within, through constant, frank, inclusive and transparent dialogue between those involved in all stages of their planning and implementation, including the General Assembly, through its Special Committee, and the troopcontributing countries.
41. Clearly defined mandates would allow the objectives of the mission to be met fully and would avoid politically motivated interpretations that went beyond the scope of action of the United Nations. His delegation supported civilian protection mandates, provided that they were clearly formulated and adhered to the principles of sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence of States and non-intervention in their domestic affairs. The protection of civilians must not lead to any modification of the parameters governing the use of force, including the principle of proportionality. The use of new technologies, such as unmanned aerial vehicles, required consideration and discussion within the Special Committee in view of the ethical, legal and protection issues linked to the
consent of the parties and respect for the host country's sovereignty and security.
42. Ecuador noted the renewal and consolidation of the mandate of MINUSTAH, to which it contributed its largest peacekeeping contingent. The consolidation plan of MINUSTAH should be implemented based on data reflecting the situation on the ground and on the development of national capacities, in respect of which the input and consent of the Haitian Government was essential. The views of troop-contributing countries should be given the highest consideration and under no circumstances should the consolidation plan be implemented as part of structural adjustment programmes.
43. Mr. Tuy (Cambodia) said that increasingly complex peacekeeping operations and insufficient logistical support to counter threats should be addressed properly and in a timely manner. To alleviate risks, peacekeepers should be well trained and equipped with modern technology and information. The United Nations had the primary responsibility for maintaining international peace and security. In that regard, the role of regional arrangements should be in line with the provisions of the Charter of the United Nations and should not replace the role of the Organization or circumvent the application of its guiding principles on peacekeeping. Peacekeeping mandates, together with political support, sufficient resources and financial and logistical support were key to enabling the United Nations to act effectively and efficiently in conflict situations. His delegation appreciated the achievements of the Special Committee over the previous year and looked forward to the establishment of the High-level Independent Panel to review United Nations peacekeeping operations in consultation with troop- and police-contributing countries, and other stakeholders.
44. Women played an important role in peacekeeping and greater emphasis should be given to gender equality. His Government was therefore providing more opportunities for women to be deployed as peacekeepers. Any form of exploitation or inappropriate behaviour by peacekeepers was unacceptable and should be fully addressed. Cambodia supported the implementation of a zero-tolerance policy with regard to such behaviour and noted the efforts taken by the Department of Peacekeeping Operations to establish standards of conduct and train managerial and command staff to conduct immediate
10/16
14-63728
A/C.4/69/SR.18
investigations into any such incidents. His delegation welcomed the determination to provide assistance and financial support to victims of sexual exploitation or abuse by United Nations staff members or related personnel, which should range from medical and physical rehabilitation to education and skills training. Troop-contributing countries should contribute peacekeepers with high morals and discipline.
45. Cambodia had hosted United Nations peacekeepers from 1991 to 1993, following a long civil war. That support had helped the country to find peace and political stability and his Government had consequently committed itself to participating in peacekeeping. Since the establishment of the National Centre for Peacekeeping Forces, Mines, and Explosive Remnants of War Clearance in 2005 and the adoption of a defence white paper in 2006, Cambodia had dispatched more than 2,000 military, police and civilian personnel to peacekeeping operations and would deploy an engineering company to MINUSCA in November 2014. In 2010, Cambodia had hosted multinational field and command post training exercises.
46. Mr. Grujic (Serbia) said that peacekeeping operations had become more complex than ever, particularly when assisting countries to make the transition from conflict to sustainable peace. Given the difficult operating environment and the scale and complexity of demands, it was essential to strengthen United Nations peacekeeping capacity and optimize available resources to ensure the effective implementation of Security Council mandates. Peacekeeping missions needed to be appropriately equipped and structured to deal with new challenges and tasks, and the importance of strengthening operational capacities and organizational structures should be emphasized. His delegation welcomed all efforts by the Secretariat to make missions more effective and efficient. As successful peacekeeping was a shared responsibility, it was essential to enhance the partnership between the Security Council, the General Assembly, the Secretariat, host countries, troop- and police-contributing countries and other actors, particularly regional organizations. The valuable field experience of troop- and police-contributing countries should be incorporated into planning and policymaking processes. Improved training for peacekeeping personnel was also a critical component of successful peacekeeping operations.
47. His delegation shared concerns that United Nations personnel were increasingly coming under attack and emphasized that their safety and security should be addressed as a priority. It further supported all efforts to better protect peacekeeping missions in the field, in accordance with the provisions of the Charter of the United Nations and the basic principles of peacekeeping. It also welcomed efforts to develop the use of modern technologies to enhance missions' capacity in the field, fulfil mandates and improve safety and security. The integration of a gender perspective in all elements of peacekeeping policy and efforts to promote women's participation in peacekeeping operations and decision-making processes were vital to improving performance on the ground. The comprehensive role of the Special Committee meant that it should continue to render strategic guidance on peacekeeping operations, based on consensus and within the timelines set for its yearly activities. Serbia attached great importance to the role of the United Nations in promoting international peace and security and supported the institutional reforms initiated by the Secretary-General, which would provide for the strategic review and analysis of peace operations.
48. Serbia was among the ten biggest contributors to United Nations peacekeeping operations in Europe and over 200 members of its armed forces had served as peacekeepers. It would increase its level of engagement in UNIFIL, and start new deployments, including to MINUSCA, at the end of 2014. Since Serbia was in a region that had experienced challenging times, it approached peacekeeping and peacebuilding with a special sense of responsibility and had promoted regional cooperation, reconciliation and understanding as the building blocks of lasting peace. Serbia had recently co-hosted a high-level regional roundtable to discuss cooperation among the countries of the Western Balkans on United Nations peacekeeping, which had also been attended by representatives of the United Nations, 20 partner countries, the European Union, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. The countries of the region had reiterated their readiness to strengthen mutual cooperation and provide additional impetus to carrying out United Nations peacekeeping operations through joint contributions and engagement.
14-63728
11/16
A/C.4/69/SR.18
49. Mr. Bai (Fiji) said that, since conflict jeopardized the stability and growth of developing and developed countries, peacekeeping was a vital part of the mandate of the United Nations to help States settle disputes peacefully and move towards sustainable development. The complex and changing challenges faced by peacekeeping operations required concerted action by all stakeholders. Fiji would therefore continue to engage in all aspects of discussion on United Nations peacekeeping and pertinent operational matters. His delegation emphasized the need for strong, clear commitments and achievable mandates b ased on objective assessment, political will and sufficient human and financial resources. Integrated planning and consistent approaches to link policy formulation to implementation on the ground were paramount for the safety of civilians and peacekeepers. Troopcontributing countries should participate fully in policy formulation and decision-making and constant attention should be given to improved coordination between the Secretariat, troop-contributing countries, host countries and the Security Council. The exchange of information with troop-contributing countries, including on mission planning, management and coordination, must be emphasized. It was unfortunate that article 44 of the Charter of the United Nations, stating that a Member State not represented on the Security Council should be invited to participate in the decisions of the Security Council concerning the employment of contingents of that Member's armed forces, was not actually observed in practice. The Department of Peacekeeping Operations should advise the Security Council to hold such consultations.
50. Missions should be well equipped and supported throughout all stages and continuous monitoring should be based on a realistic assessment of the situation on the ground. Appropriate measures should be taken to ensure the safety and security of peacekeepers and the Department should initiate a dialogue with Member States on additional safety measures for situations where current measures were deemed inadequate. Furthermore, peacekeepers should be able to respond rapidly to emergencies in accordance with the provisions of the Charter of the United Nations. Technology to enhance the safety and security of peacekeepers should be used in accordance with the basic principles of peacekeeping and the provisions of the Charter. Peacekeeping operations should be based on a coherent vision to be
implemented through political, social and developmental tools.
51. Mr. Mbalati (South Africa) said that South Africa attached great importance to the safety and security of United Nations peacekeepers. His delegation noted with concern that members of the South African National Defence Force deployed as peacekeepers had been injured during an ambush near their base in the northern Darfur region of the Sudan. The attack followed similar attacks on Ethiopian and Tanzanian forces in the area. The changing nature of conflict and its implications for peacekeeping missions was a matter of concern. Since peacekeeping could not resolve political situations, some peacekeeping missions, such as those in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, were continuing indefinitely. It should be noted that serious budgetary constraints on the United Nations would affect a number of peacekeeping operations. His delegation therefore strongly advocated the inclusion of political support in peacekeeping missions.
52. The adoption of Security Council resolution 2098 (2013), authorizing the use of force in protecting civilians in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, had been a significant milestone in responding to the changing nature and environment of peacekeeping. It had enabled the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo to begin to restore State authority in areas previously occupied by armed groups and had improved the lives of the local population. The widely-discussed advantages of regional and subregional organizations in the maintenance of international peace and security had not been leveraged, which made the Secretary-General's announced review of peace operations particularly timely. The review would provide Member States with an opportunity for broader discussion on adapting peacekeeping operations to new demands and challenges, and should ideally be undertaken in synergy with the upcoming review of peacebuilding mandated by the General Assembly and Security Council.
53. His delegation welcomed the increase in troop reimbursement rates and stressed that troop reimbursements should be processed without delay. It also welcomed the general downward trend in the number of allegations of sexual exploitation and abuse by United Nations staff members and related personnel in recent years and reiterated its support for the
12/16
14-63728
A/C.4/69/SR.18
Secretary-General's zero-tolerance policy with respect to sexual exploitation and abuse.
54. Women were vital to the success of peacekeeping and the Secretary-General had identified the need to increase women's participation in United Nations peacekeeping missions. South Africa was one of the top contributors of female personnel to missions through its police deployment in UNMISS and the African Union-United Nations Hybrid Operation in Darfur (UNAMID).
55. Mr. Zamora Rivas (El Salvador) said that his country had greatly benefited from United Nations peacekeeping during its own transition from war to peace. Effective peacekeeping operations required suitable human, financial and logistical resources with clearly defined and realistic mandates. Exit strategies that took into account the need to assess transition and withdrawal deadlines should be set out prior to the approval and deployment of missions, and the national capacities of host countries must be considered to ensure sustainable and appropriate transitions. Peacekeeping operations were not a goal in themselves, but rather temporary measures to create a secure environment in which to implement a long-term strategy for sustainable development. Although financial criteria were important, they should never be a decisive factor in determining the characteristics of a mission, which should be based solely on conditions in the country concerned. Any new peacekeeping operation or extension of an existing operation should be guided by the basic principles of peacekeeping and adhere to the principles of the Charter of the United Nations, in particular sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence of States and nonintervention in their domestic affairs. The right security conditions for peacekeeping operations were important, particularly for women peacekeepers, who were often the victims of kidnapping or rape. Such incidents should be rapidly and effectively punished, and investigations should be carried out to ensure that they did not reoccur.
56. In view of the complex and intractable nature of many conflicts, El Salvador supported the use of technology, such as unmanned aerial vehicles, to carry out monitoring activities with a view to improving the security of peacekeeping personnel and tackling other problems. Such technology, however, needed to be regulated by normative instruments and its use should not violate the principles established in the Charter of
the United Nations. His delegation called for strengthened interaction between host countries and peacekeeping operations and the active participation of troop-contributing countries in decision-making processes. Smooth operations required the efficient and timely reimbursement of troop-contributing countries.
57. El Salvador had entered a new phase in its commitment to United Nations peacekeeping and would soon deploy troops to MINUSMA. Participation in MINUSTAH would continue, as would support for the missions currently in Liberia, the Sudan, South Sudan, Cote d'Ivoire and Lebanon; the Salvadorian police presence in missions in Haiti and Liberia would also be increased. His delegation supported action to strengthen the United Nations system and provide training for troop- and police-contributing countries, and stressed that adequate financial resources should be provided to implement mandates established by the Security Council.
58. Mr. Nduhuura (Uganda) said that his delegation supported the Secretary-General's initiative to conduct a comprehensive review of peacekeeping operations,, which would present an opportunity also to consider peace enforcement and peacebuilding. A holistic approach was needed to address peacekeeping issues. Complex intra-State conflicts required a multi-pronged approach that covered military, security, civil, humanitarian, political and economic aspects to ensure security and avert humanitarian disaster or genocide. Peacekeeping should initially facilitate humanitarian assistance, including the distribution of relief items and medication, but should neither be an end in itself, nor merely a means of providing aid. The experience of Uganda and the Intergovernmental Authority on Development in Somalia had shown that, when State institutions had been greatly undermined, there was a particular need for the United Nations and the international community to facilitate the political process of fostering reconciliation and re-establishing those institutions, before reconstruction and economic recovery could be addressed.
59. The achievements of the African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM) had illustrated the importance of mission mandates taking into consideration the nature of the conflict. There were situations where neutrality did not work, for example, in fighting Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant and Al-Shabaab in Somalia. The limited mandate of MONUSCO had seen several peacekeepers killed in attacks by rebel groups
14-63728
13/16
A/C.4/69/SR.18
before the Security Council had decided to create an Intervention Brigade to dislodge the 23 March Movement (M23), thereby enabling the signing of a peace agreement. The outcome of the proposed review of peacekeeping operations should emphasize the inclusion of robust mandates as needed, rather than as exceptions.
60. Regional and subregional groupings had been instrumental in addressing regional conflicts and strengthened cooperation was needed between the United Nations and those organizations. As a result of the contribution of AMISOM towards restoring security in Somalia, peace was slowly returning to that country, there was significantly less piracy in the Indian Ocean around Somalia and the Gulf of Aden, and international trade was resuming. Support for regional and subregional organizations should be enhanced through predictable and ample funding for missions supported by the United Nations because troop-contributing countries should not have to bear undue financial burdens when working to maintain international peace and security. A monitoring and evaluation unit should be established within the Department of Peacekeeping Operations to monitor missions and determine their effectiveness at establishing peace and security and contributing to political and economic restoration. Comprehensive exit strategies were needed for missions that had been accomplished.
61. Peacekeeping should not be used as a pretext for undermining the territorial integrity or sovereignty of a State, or the right to self-determination of a people. His delegation supported a stronger civilian protection role for peacekeeping missions, which should nonetheless adhere to the purposes and principles of the United Nations. All the other issues raised for consideration in the comprehensive review would be undermined if Member States put their short-term geopolitical interests before the larger interest of international peace and security.
62. Mr. Alemu (Ethiopia) said that, as a result of rapidly changing security dynamics, United Nations peacekeepers were operating in a complex and challenging environment. It had been fifteen years since the publication of the 2000 report of the Panel on United Nations Peace Operations (A/55/305S/2000/809) and his delegation therefore welcomed the review of United Nations peacekeeping operations announced by the Secretary-General. An innovative
approach was needed to tackle evolving circumstances on the ground and the transformation of peacekeeping operations could be seen in the use of new technology and cooperation between missions, as well as the priority given to the protection of civilians. Dynamic partnerships between the United Nations and regional organizations were critical to responding more quickly and effectively to violent conflicts wherever they occurred. In that respect, the strategic partnership between the United Nations Security Council and the Peace and Security Council of the African Union had become all the more critical to ensuring peace and stability in Africa. The African Union played a pivotal role in peace and security and in the contribution of troops, logistics and political leadership for that purpose. However, as experience in Somalia and Mali had shown, regional and subregional organizations often lacked the necessary resources and capacity to meet their responsibilities effectively. Any partnership between the United Nations and the African Union should prioritize the continent's deficiencies in peace operations, such as logistics, funding and critical enablers and multipliers. In that regard, his delegation appreciated the steps taken by the United Nations to assist AMISOM.
63. Ethiopia had long been committed to United Nations peacekeeping and had participated in more than ten peacekeeping missions. It was the biggest troop contributor in Africa and currently had 12,000 peacekeepers deployed in various missions. It was also a leading contributor of female peacekeepers, the major contributor to the United Nations Interim Security Force for Abyei (UNISFA) and a leading troop contributor in Somalia under AMISOM. The Ethiopian International Peacekeeping Training Centre was being established with support from stakeholders to build the capacity of the Eastern African Standby Force, African Standby Force and personnel from other African countries. The Centre would become a hub of excellence in peace operations by organizing integrated training and research programmes.
64. Mr. Metref (Algeria) said that United Nations peacekeeping missions had become multidimensional operations whose mandates included such tasks as disarmament, demobilization and reintegration; assistance for displaced persons; the supervision of local elections; and the protection of human rights. Those missions needed to be able to adapt quickly to changing circumstances; clear and achievable
14/16
14-63728
A/C.4/69/SR.18
mandates were also needed. The Security Council should be in a position to adapt the mandates of any peacekeeping mission when required. While some missions did not include a duty to monitor and report on the human rights situation on the ground, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights had stressed the importance of including a human rights component in all peacekeeping missions.
65. Most contemporary peacekeeping operations were deployed in situations of internal political crisis that were complicated by difficult humanitarian and socioeconomic circumstances, the presence of terrorist organizations interested in maintaining a power vacuum and challenges such as drug trafficking and organized crime. Peacekeeping operations were therefore often authorized in the absence of clearly identifiable parties to the conflict or a viable political process, and were deployed to resolve intra-State conflicts where there was little or no peace to keep and peacekeepers faced asymmetric and non-traditional threats. The issue of the safety and security of peacekeepers had become increasingly pressing, and his delegation expressed serious concern about losses and casualties among peacekeepers. The mandate of foreign military contingents from individual States or regional organizations that were deployed alongside United Nations peacekeeping operations should be clearly defined, including with regard to their withdrawal and reconfiguration. The significant increase in the number, size and complexities of peacekeeping operations required in-depth, transparent and inclusive discussion between Member States and the Secretariat in order to address new challenges in accordance with the principles of the Charter of the United Nations. Peacekeeping missions should be established on the basis of a comprehensive and coherent vision to be implemented through social, political and development tools. United Nations peacekeeping capacity should be strengthened to ensure effective field operations and the successful implementation of mandates, which also required the optimization of available resources to ensure that all necessary equipment was provided. The Special Committee played the central role in formulating decisions and providing guidance on all peacekeeping issues and should use its mandate and authority to extend policy guidance to the Secretariat.
66. Regional cooperation was an important dimension of the work of the United Nations, and was
provided for in Chapter VIII of the Charter of the United Nations. Regional partnerships were becoming more significant as regions assumed ownership of peace and security issues. The African Union, for example, was increasingly taking a lead role in responding to conflicts, either independently or with the United Nations. African peacekeeping capabilities should therefore be strengthened and further supported by the United Nations through predictable, sufficient and sustainable funding.
67. Mr. Granillo (Observer for the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC)) said that peacekeeping had moved beyond its traditional role of monitoring peace agreements to focus on such areas as the rule of law, security sector reform, humanitarian assistance and the protection of civilians. Furthermore, peacekeepers were increasingly deployed in volatile contexts with complex mandates that sometimes required the more frequent use of force, even at a level beyond that required for self-defence. Such changes raised questions concerning the legal framework governing the use of force and the actions of United Nations missions entrusted with robust mandates. The mandate and legitimacy of a United Nations mission had no bearing on the applicability of international humanitarian law to the mission, which was determined by the circumstances on the ground and specific legal conditions stemming from the relevant provisions of that body of law, without distinction as to the nature or origin of the armed conflict or the causes espoused by those involved. When applicable, international humanitarian law governed United Nations military operations against an adversary for as long as the United Nations mission was considered a party to the armed conflict. Since United Nations peacekeepers could also be required to perform law enforcement tasks, it was important that they were fully aware of, and adhered to, the relevant standards, in particular human rights law. International humanitarian law, human rights law and other applicable bodies of law should be integrated in the doctrine, training and practices of United Nations military and police forces. ICRC would continue to provide support and expertise for relevant predeployment and on-site peacekeeper training.
68. Peacekeeping missions were increasingly mandated to take all necessary steps to protect civilians and to ensure that the parties to the conflict complied with international humanitarian law. While that was
14-63728
15/16
A/C.4/69/SR.18
difficult, especially when insufficient resources were allocated for that purpose, such work was nonetheless essential in order to improve the plight of civilians. The collective aspiration to protect civilians was an encouraging development in the implementation of common article 1 of the Geneva Conventions of 1949, which was recognized as binding upon the United Nations and troop-contributing countries. ICRC welcomed the implementation of existing strategies to improve the ability of United Nations peacekeeping missions to protect, assist and bring relief to civilians affected by armed conflict and other situations of violence, and recommended that protection strategies should be devised and implemented in consultation with other relevant humanitarian organizations, in order to avoid confusion and take advantage of synergies. It was worth noting that the revised edition of the ICRC Professional Standards for Protection Work addressed the relationship between United Nations missions and humanitarian organizations; its guidance on the division of responsibilities and interaction among the organizations involved should inform the Organization's development and implementation of civilian protection strategies.
69. Although the multidimensional nature of peacekeeping had made it necessary to establish integrated peacekeeping missions, there was a risk that such missions would lead to a blurring of roles and responsibilities. It was important that local authorities, arms carriers and the local population were able to differentiate between the roles of integrated United Nation missions and distinct humanitarian actors. Recognition of that distinction was essential in order to preserve the neutral, independent, impartial and strictly humanitarian approach that ICRC pursued to protect and assist victims of armed conflict.
70. ICRC remained committed to maintaining its constructive dialogue with the United Nations on operational, protection, legal and training issues relating to peacekeeping and stood ready to engage in open dialogue with Member States, particularly troopand police-contributing countries and members of the Security Council and the Special Committee.
71. Mr. Maleki (Islamic Republic of Iran) said that his delegation wished to propose that at least one additional day should be allocated to the Committee's consideration of the current agenda item at the seventieth session of the General Assembly, in order to
allow more time for delegations to deliver statements on the important issue of peacekeeping operations.
72. The Chair said that the proposal made by the representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran would be taken into consideration.
The meeting rose at 12.50p.m.
16/16
14-63728