United Nations
A/c .3/71/SR.44
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
Official Records
Distr.: General 7 December 2016
Original: English
Third Committee
Summary record of the 44th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Thursday, 3 November 2016, at 3 p.m.
Chair: Mr. Eriza (Vice-Chair) (Indonesia)
Contents
Agenda item 27: Advancement of women (continued)
Agenda item 26: Social development (continued)
(b) Literacy for life: shaping future agendas (continued)
Agenda item 106: Crime prevention and criminal justice (continued)
Agenda item 107: International drug control (continued)
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Control Unit (srcorrections@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
16-19214 (E)
in ini inwmwwwv
Please recycle
A/C.3/71/SR.44
In the absence of Ms. Mej^a Velez (Colombia), Mr Eriza (Indonesia), Vice-Chair, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda item 27: Advancement of women (continued) (A/C.3/71/L.16)
Draft resolution A/C.3/71/L.16: Intensification of efforts to end obstetric fistula
1. Ms. Gueye (Senegal), speaking on behalf of the Group of African States, said that the draft biennial resolution once again called on the international community to redouble its efforts to end the suffering caused by obstetric fistula. The condition, which occurred after a difficult or prolonged labour, opened the door to other chronic health problems for the mother and the child, raising maternal and infant mortality rates. It also led to psychological problems for mothers as a result of stigma and ostracism, sometimes resulting in depression and suicide.
2. The draft resolution focused on strengthening provisions related to access to high-quality emergency obstetric and neonatal care. It was important to work towards increasing the number of health-care workers trained in treating obstetric fistula, such as surgeons, midwives and nurses, in order to reverse the trend in maternal and newborn mortality.
3. The draft resolution also addressed the root causes of obstetric fistula such as poverty, lack of access to health-care services, early childbearing, child, early and forced marriage, and gender inequality. Member States were therefore called upon to take all necessary measures to ensure the right of women and girls to the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health, and to put in place sustainable health-care services that were gender sensitive and non-discriminatory. Increased financial support would be needed to end obstetric fistula.
4. Mr. Khane (Secretary of the Committee) said that China, El Salvador, Mongolia, Timor-Leste and Vietnam had joined the sponsors of the draft resolution.
Agenda item 26: Social development (continued)
(b) Literacy for life: shaping future agendas
(continued) (A/C.3/71/L.9/Rev.1)
Draft resolution A/C.3/71/L.9/Rev. 1: Literacy for life: shaping future agendas
5. The Chair said that the draft resolution had no programme budget implications.
6. Mr. Sukhee (Mongolia), introducing the draft resolution on behalf of the sponsors, said that substantive improvements had been made to the current draft: it had been harmonized with the literacy related goals of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development; there was a new emphasis on the number of rural children who were not in school, and a recognition that substantial investments were needed to improve education; safe learning environments for all in humanitarian emergencies had been encouraged; and the catalytic and coordinating role of the United Nations Scientific and Cultural Organization in literacy promotion had been underscored.
7. Mr. Khane (Secretary of the Committee) said that the following delegations had joined the sponsors: Afghanistan, Algeria, Andorra, Argentina, Bahamas, Belize, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Burkina Faso, Cabo Verde, Canada, Costa Rica, Czechia, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Fiji, Finland, France, Georgia, Greece, Haiti, Honduras, Iceland, India, Israel, Kazakhstan, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Lichtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Monaco, Montenegro, Morocco, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Palau, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, San Marino, Serbia, Singapore, Slovakia, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Uruguay, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) and Yemen.
8. Draft resolution A/C.3/71/L.9/Rev. 1 was adopted.
2/3
16-19214
A/C.3/71/SR.44
Agenda item 106: Crime prevention and criminal justice (continued) (A/C.3/71/L.2)
Draft resolution A/C.3/71/L.2: Follow-up to the Thirteenth United Nations Congress on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice and preparations for the Fourteenth United Nations Congress on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice
9. The Chair said that the draft resolution had no programme budget implications.
10. Draft resolution A/C.3/71/L.2 was adopted.
Agenda item 107: International drug control
(continued) (A/C.3/71/L.3)
Draft resolution A/C.3/71/L.3: Promoting the implementation of the United Nations Guiding Principles on Alternative Development
11. The Chair said that the draft resolution had no programme budget implications.
12. Draft resolution A/C.3/71/L.3 was adopted.
The meeting rose at 3.25 p.m.
16-19214
3/3