United Nations
A/c .3/70/SR. 17
General Assembly
Seventieth session
Official Records
Distr.: General 9 November 2015
Original: English
Third Committee
Summary record of the 17th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Friday, 16 October 2015, at 3 p.m.
Chair: Mr. Dempsey (Vice-Chair) (Canada)
later: Mr. Mohamed (Vice-Chair) (Guyana)
later: Mr. Dempsey (Vice-Chair) (Canada)
Contents
Agenda item 68: Promotion and protection of the rights of children (continued)
(a) Promotion and protection of the rights of children (continued)
(b) Follow-up to the outcome of the special session on children (continued)
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Control Unit (srcorrections@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
15-17960 (E)
III IIII III
A/C.3/70/SR.17
In the absence of Mr. Hilale (Morocco), Mr. Dempsey (Canada), Vice-Chair, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda item 68: Promotion and protection of the rights of children (continued)
(a) Promotion and protection of the rights of children (continued) (A/70/162, A/70/222, A/70/267, A/70/289 and A/70/315)
(b) Follow-up to the outcome of the special session on children (continued) (A/70/265)
1. Ms. Al Sa‘d (Qatar) said that, although significant progress had been made by the international community in its efforts to uphold children's rights, the reports of the Special Representatives of the SecretaryGeneral for Children and Armed Conflict and on Violence against Children made it clear that children continued to be killed and suffer abuse, mistreatment and forced recruitment, including by armed terrorist groups, in many countries. Her delegation commended the efforts by the Special Representatives to ensure respect for the rights of children and ensure that they could live secure lives.
2. Qatar had ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Optional Protocols thereto, wholeheartedly supported the Children Not Soldiers campaign and had made every effort to strengthen respect for the rights of children. To that end, it had given priority consideration to children's rights in Qatar National Vision 2030, the Qatar National Development Strategy 2011-2016 and its domestic legislation on the family and society. Her country had also established institutions to provide education, health care and rehabilitation services to children with special needs and had made particular efforts to ensure that every child had access to quality education. In that regard, Qatar had launched the Educate a Child initiative which aimed to empower children worldwide, particularly those living in poor countries and conflict areas, and uphold their right to basic education.
3. Children, women and the marginalized were particularly vulnerable when countries became unstable or descended into armed conflict. The ongoing suffering of refugees and internally displaced persons flew in the face of undertakings by the international community to foster peace and support people's right to strive to achieve their aspirations. Furthermore, at
the third International Humanitarian Pledging Conference for Syria, Qatar had proposed the establishment of an education and skills development fund for Syrian refugee and internally displaced children and young people and, in collaboration with the Permanent Missions of other States and the Qatar Education Above All initiative, it had held high level discussions on that proposal on the margins of the current session of the General Assembly. Qatar hoped that other States would support the fund and that agreement would soon be reached on implementation mechanisms so that it could move forward.
4. Her country reiterated its concern for the situation of children living under foreign occupation, including, in particular, Palestinian children. Condemning the ongoing violence and other crimes perpetrated against them by the Israeli occupation authorities and Israeli settler groups, Qatar called on the international community to take urgent action to uphold the rights of those children and ensure that they, and children everywhere, could live peaceful, happy and secure lives.
5. Mr. Harari (Libya) said that his country accorded the highest priority to upholding the rights of children, who constituted a third of its population and the foundation stone on which Libya's future would be built. Indeed, the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals was contingent on safeguarding the interests of children. To that end, Libya was striving to implement all relevant regional and international instruments to which it was a party, including, in particular, the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Optional Protocols thereto, and provided compulsory basic and middle-school education free of charge for both boys and girls.
6. Regrettably, however, recent events in Libya had undermined much of the progress that had been achieved in the field of education. To address the challenges resulting from the forced relocation of children in many parts of the country, the Ministry of Education had established an office for internally displaced persons, which, inter alia, was striving to ensure that all internally displaced children in Libya attended either schools near their temporary place of refuge or mobile classrooms in their camps.
7. The High Committee on Childhood proposed amendments to bring the country's child protection laws into line with international instruments, and the
2/10
15-17960
A/C.3/70/SR.17
Ministry of Social Affairs had worked with the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) to design educational courses for social workers, and with local authorities to establish creativity centres and build sports fields in cities that had suffered damage in the conflict where children could learn and play in safety.
8. The Libyan delegation wholeheartedly supported the Children Not Soldiers campaign and underscored that the protection and strengthening of the rights of children was a crucial part of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. In that regard, Libya remained deeply concerned at the plight of children living under foreign occupation, particularly in Palestine and other occupied Arab territories, whose rights were violated, and who were arrested, tortured and killed, on a daily basis.
9. Mr. Yaremenko (Ukraine) said that the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which included goals and targets on child protection, early childhood education, and reducing inequality, was an ambitious plan of action. Ukraine would work with its partners to ensure that the commitments made in the Agenda were translated into tangible action, and that particular efforts were made to reach the most vulnerable and excluded children.
10. Ukraine had enacted legislation to uphold the rights of children, including orphans and those deprived of parental care, and sought to ensure that all children grew up in stable and nurturing environments. More than 80 per cent of orphans and other children deprived of parental care were brought up in families rather than in institutions. His country also provided assistance to families with children with particular needs and fostered partnerships among Ukrainian authorities, civil society organizations and businesses with a view to solving the most pressing challenges facing children in the country. The Ukrainian delegation also called on the international community to provide further assistance to help the country address the long-term impact of the Chernobyl nuclear disaster, which primarily affected children.
11. Although his country had made significant progress in promoting children's rights, Russian aggression against Ukraine and terrorist activity by Russian-sponsored illegal armed groups had significantly increased the proportion of families in Ukraine with children in difficult situations. That was particularly the case among families from temporarily
occupied Crimea and the Donetsk and Luhansk regions, which were controlled by Russian puppets. Ukraine called on the Russian Federation to cease its subversive actions, which had resulted in great suffering among the population living in the terroristcontrolled areas, and urged Member States and the United Nations to address the situation, including, in particular, violations of the rights of Crimean Tartar and ethnic Ukrainian children in Crimea.
12. Ukraine highly appreciated the financial and technical assistance that it received from the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), with which it would continue to work closely, and was particularly grateful to the Fund and its partners for their initiatives to provide clean drinking water and emergency healthcare support to the thousands of internally displaced persons, including large numbers of children, in the country. Ukraine also commended the UNICEF mine awareness campaign, which had sought to raise awareness of the danger of mines among some 500,000 Ukrainian children and their families in conflict affected areas.
13. Ms. Nguele Makouelet (Congo) said that it was vital that children and young people in situations of vulnerability enjoyed access to education so that they could acquire the skills and knowledge that they needed to participate fully and effectively in society. The Congolese Government was striving to improve access to quality education for all the country's children and young people and had provided schooling and school exams free of charge since 2012. More than 90 per cent of children in the Congo received an education, and girls' school enrolment rates had increased significantly. Helping girls to stay in school could help break an intergenerational cycle of early pregnancy, sexual violence and other negative trends. Indeed, investing in young people was a policy imperative, which would empower them to uphold their rights and build a more equitable and prosperous future.
14. The Government had adopted a number of medical, social and economic policies to improve the lives of women who suffered from obstetric fistula, provided free antiretroviral therapies to prevent mother-to-child HIV transmission, and provided free antimalarial products for pregnant women and children up to 15 years of age. It had also established a network of non-governmental organizations to combat sexual violence, which was supported by a national oversight
15-17960
3/10
A/C.3/70/SR.17
office. As a result, infant mortality rates had fallen from 121 to 49 per 100,000 live births between 2000 and 2013, and maternal mortality rates had declined from 781 to 426 deaths per 100,000 live births between 2005 and 2012. Mother-to-child HIV transmission rates had also fallen.
15. The Congo had enacted laws that upheld the rights of all children in the country, including indigenous and migrant children, and prohibited their employment in mining and other dangerous types of work. Heavy fines and imprisonment were imposed on traffickers or others found guilty of child exploitation. Furthermore, children who had been involved in armed conflict were offered post-conflict physical and psychological rehabilitation to facilitate their reintegration into society. Her country had also adopted a national strategy on child protection that, inter alia, aimed to change prevailing social attitudes and provided for effective follow-up mechanisms to ensure that children received appropriate care. The Congo called on the international community to support its child protection strategies.
16. Mr. Mangisi (Tonga) said that, since its ratification of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in 1995, Tonga had made strenuous efforts to uphold children's rights in its policies and laws, especially with regard to their heath, physical safety and education. Its 2013 Family Protection Act protected children from domestic violence and provided for prison terms and fines for perpetrators. Furthermore, the Criminal Offences Act provided further protections for children, both in and outside the home.
17. Tonga had achieved almost universal access to free primary education for both girls and boys and some of the world's highest child literacy rates. The country's educational curriculums aimed to develop every child's particular talents and skills so that he or she could achieve their full potential. Furthermore, as a result of the country's health-care initiatives, underfive child mortality rates had declined by 23 per cent since 1990, and the adolescent birth rate had decreased by 42 per cent. Meanwhile, Tongans' life expectancy continued to rise. Tonga had achieved the Millennium Development Goals in health and education and was proud of its high Human Development Index. Furthermore, in line with the Sustainable Development Goals and targets, Tonga had elaborated a set of development priorities for the coming 15 years.
18. As children were particularly vulnerable to the impact of climate change, Tonga, a Pacific small island developing State, was working with local communities and relevant stakeholders in other countries to develop climate change mitigation and adaptation policies. In that regard, its Joint National Plan on Climate Change Adaptation and Disaster Risk Management 2010 -2015, elaborated in coordination with the United Nations Development Programme, set forth steps to mitigate climate change vulnerability among children.
19. Mr. Gbrou (Cote d'Ivoire) said that many children in his country still did not have access to education, adequate health care and drinking water. Cote d'Ivoire was a party to various international treaties on the rights of children and was furthering its commitment with concrete actions. It had passed a law to combat statelessness that allowed all children of unknown parentage living in the territory to acquire Ivorian citizenship. Specific measures had been taken to identify children from birth. Civil registration services had been restored and modernized in the regions afflicted by the 2002 -2011 crisis, and methods to register births had been updated.
20. Education in public schools was provided free of charge, and school was compulsory for children between the ages of 6 and 16. National legislation penalized the practice of female genital mutilation and all forms of violence and abuse of children, including corporal punishment in schools. Human rights had been introduced into school curriculums in 2011. Extensive actions had been taken to promote the social inclusion of children with disabilities, and a national institute for the blind and a school for the deaf had been established.
21. His Government had prioritized the fight against child labour and had created a national monitoring committee and an interministerial committee to combat trafficking, exploitation and child labour. In the past, Cote d'Ivoire had been seen as a country that abusively exploited child workers in cacao cultivation. Due to the efforts of its First Lady, who had worked in collaboration with partners to end the scourge, many measures had been implemented, and the country had regained the confidence of the international community.
22. The end of 2014 and the beginning of 2015 had seen an unusual number of kidnappings and murders of children in his country. The Government had taken
4/10
15-17960
A/C.3/70/SR.17
appropriate measures to put a stop to those acts, including monitoring the surroundings near schools, forests and bodies of water. Protecting children was a moral and legal obligation for all States, which needed to work tirelessly to protect the future of humanity.
23. Mr. Mendoza-Garcia (Costa Rica) said that chronic poverty was the greatest obstacle to meeting the needs of children and protecting and promoting their rights. Children, especially the poorest and most marginalized, were more vulnerable to poverty, social and economic inequalities and environmental degradation. To break the cycle of poverty and social exclusion, it was necessary to provide equitable and non-discriminatory access to education for children.
24. His Government emphasized that children should be in school. Education should be a positive experience that helped children acquire knowledge, built character and strengthened their dignity. An educational programme on ethics, aesthetics and citizenship had been created to promote retention, strengthen a culture of peace and improve social and democratic harmony. Education was the basis for guaranteeing the realization of other basic and fundamental rights. Therefore, it was important to ensure access to quality education that provided children with the skills to empower them and make them drivers of sustainable development.
25. Costa Rica had made significant achievements in the promotion and protection of the rights of children, but these advances were endangered by negative changes in the economy and multidimensional challenges stemming from economic limitations and environmental, social and cultural factors. Violence negatively impacted social and emotional development. Constant exposure to acts of violence could lead to patterns of abuse, exploitation and more violence, especially when access to quality basic social services for protection, recovery and reintegration were limited.
26. Protecting children from violence must be a national priority as well as a global effort. With the adoption of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, States must guarantee effective strategies that would eliminate violence against children, which would have intergenerational, multiplying benefits and effects. Attacks on educational and health centres not only violated the standards of international humanitarian law but were also grave violations of the rights of children to
education and a healthy life. Those who attacked schools and hospitals needed to be prosecuted.
27. In 2015, hundreds of thousands of children had been the victims of displacement due to armed conflicts. The international community must come together in solidarity to provide comprehensive care for displaced families and children. The regular budget of the United Nations must provide the necessary resources to fulfil the mandates of the Special Representatives of the Secretary-General for Children and Armed Conflict and on Violence against Children, whose independence and ability to act must be preserved.
28. Ms. Shahminan (Brunei Darussalam) said that her Government had accorded high priority in the national agenda to the development of children, as they made up one third of the country's population. It had a long-standing policy of providing universal access to education and had implemented several policies focused on accelerating the provision of adequate infrastructure and teaching facilities. Brunei Darussalam had one of the highest literacy rates in the region, at nearly 97 per cent. Quality health services were available to all people. A comprehensive programme that provided free immunizations to children of all nationalities had been in place since the 1950s. Brunei Darussalam had met the targets set by the World Health Organization for immunization coverage, which had consistently been above 95 per cent.
29. Her Government enforced legislation to protect and promote the rights of children, including a law against the trafficking and smuggling of persons. It had ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child and had withdrawn its reservations to the articles pertaining to adoption laws. Since families played an important role in instilling positive values in children, programmes had been introduced to strengthen the family, such as pre- and post-marital and parenting courses. A special committee on the family and women had been established to coordinate the implementation of an action plan to strengthen the family, and a national family day was celebrated every year.
30. International Children's Day was also celebrated annually to promote awareness of the safety and welfare of children, and talks were held on domestic violence and child abuse, with active participation at the grassroots level and by non-governmental
15-17960
5/10
A/C.3/70/SR.17
organizations. Brunei Darussalam had benefited from its membership in the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) through capacity building and had been cooperating with UNICEF to provide humanitarian assistance to children in need, especially those in war-torn countries.
31. Youth unemployment remained an issue. Various technical and vocational training programmes had been established to provide graduates with the necessary skills to find decent work and contribute to the country's development. Brunei Darussalam remained committed to prioritizing issues related to children in its national agenda and would continue to work with the United Nations to promote and protect the rights of children.
32. Ms. Gebremariam (Ethiopia) said that investment in children and youth was central to ensuring inclusive sustainable development. Development policies and strategies centred on the improvement and well-being of the lives of young people, as 45 per cent of her country's population was under the age of 15, and 71 per cent was under the age of 30. The rights and freedoms of children, guaranteed by the Constitution, had been incorporated into all national legislation, policies and development programmes.
33. The National Alliance to End Child Marriage and the National Committee on the Elimination of Harmful Traditional Practices had been established to raise public awareness of the adverse impact of harmful traditional practices and to work toward their elimination. As a result, female genital mutilation had dropped from 74 per cent in 2005 to 23 per cent in 2010, and early marriage had decreased from 33 per cent in 1997 to 8 per cent in 2013 -2014. A national action plan to eliminate the worst forms of child labour had also been implemented, and the Government was committed to promoting public awareness of its harmful effects.
34. The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, to which Ethiopia was a party, had been translated into several local languages and disseminated in an effort to raise awareness of it. Legislation had been adopted to facilitate access to public buildings by persons with disabilities. The education policy had had a positive impact: primary education was free of charge, and the overall enrolment rate had risen from 32 per cent in the early 1990s to
96.4 per cent in 2010-2011. The mortality rate of children under five had declined by two thirds. The 2013 strategy to prevent mother-to-child transmission of HIV/AIDS had been integrated into other mother and child health services, and 41 per cent of mothers had access to health facilities.
35. Corporal punishment was prohibited in schools, and the Government was taking steps to raise awareness and eliminate corporal punishment in family settings with campaigns that promoted positive approaches to child discipline. The Ministry of Women, Children and Youth Affairs was working with various stakeholders at the grassroots level to combat violence against women and girls.
36. Special investigation and prosecution units had been established to ensure that women and child victims received adequate support from medical professionals, police and prosecutors. The Government had also established a comprehensive plan to curtail illegal migration and human trafficking. Fostering international cooperation and partnerships for achieving the Sustainable Development Goals and implementing the Addis Ababa Action Agenda should be at the centre of all development endeavours at all levels.
37. Ms. Issoufou (Niger) said that education was compulsory in the Niger and that her Government had recently committed to making education free until the age of 16. Though child marriage was a practice that was culturally and socially acceptable according to some traditional and religious values, it constituted a violation of the rights of girls according to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Her country had therefore launched a national campaign to combat child marriage, with the goal of enacting a law to set the minimum age of marriage at 18. With assistance from the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), the non-governmental organization Lafia Matassa carried out programmes aimed at adolescents, both married and unmarried, to reduce early marriage and early pregnancy in targeted zones through meetings focused on awareness, literacy and community dialogue.
38. Her country had many facilities to care for children in difficult circumstances. There were 24 public shelters that received children who had been victims of abuse, violence or exploitation. Children awaiting trial in the criminal justice system were
6/10
15-17960
A/C.3/70/SR.17
detained in specially-designed areas. Educational, legal and preventive centres had also been created. Her Government had adopted a number of laws and measures to align its legal tools with international provisions, including the law against female circumcision and female genital mutilation. The labour code had been revised to consider the worst forms of child labour, and the penal code had been revised to take further into account abuse of and violence against children.
39. A framework document that determined national goals and strategies for the protection of children had been adopted and would be implemented over a five year period. A civil registry policy had also been adopted to increase the number of registered births, and a national plan of action had been established to combat child labour. Lastly, the National Institute of Human Rights was empowered to receive complaints and investigate violations of the rights of children.
40. Mr. Mohamed (Guyana), Vice-Chair, took the Chair
41. Mr. Komara (Guinea) said that the vulnerability of children was a major concern for his Government, which had ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the African Charter on the Rights and Welfare of the Child. Through efforts to implement those legal instruments, a monitoring committee had been set up in 1995, and a children's parliament had been established in 2001. A national strategic plan had also been adopted to eliminate female genital mutilation, which was widespread in his country.
42. His Government had enacted a law that expanded the time frame for registering births from two week to six months. It had ordered a revision of the mining code to take into account the protection of children and the environment. Since 2011, the authorities had prioritized the fight against sexual violence, the abusive exploitation and trafficking of children as well as their use in armed conflict. There had been improvements in vaccination coverage for children, which had led to a drop in the mortality rates of children under 5.
43. The legal framework had been strengthened through the establishment of a Constitutional Court, an independent national commission on human rights, and a Superior Council of the Judiciary. Education was free from primary school to university, and tens of thousands of classrooms had been built. Despite
advances, many challenges needed to be addressed before the Sustainable Development Goals could be achieved, which included establishing tribunals for children, expanding shelters and support centres and providing health care for children with disabilities.
44. In addition to the difficult situation of children in the world who had been orphaned due to HIV/AIDS, there were now thousands of children who had been orphaned because of Ebola. Increased cooperation and efforts by States and partners were needed in order to ensure the welfare of those children, who were victims of stigma even in their extended families. His delegation, therefore, called upon the international community to continue its support for the effective promotion of the rights of children in Guinea.
45. Mr. Dempsey (Canada), Vice-Chair, resumed the Chair.
46. Ms. Deer (Observer for the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC)) said that, as an organization whose overarching goal was to address the needs and vulnerabilities of people affected by armed conflict, ICRC was well aware of the heavy toll that armed conflict and the consequent constraints in accessing education could take on children's lives. In armed conflict, schools were being targeted directly, damaged incidentally or used for military purposes, which directly endangered children, sometimes causing parents to prevent their children from attending school and teachers to stop coming to work.
47. Children displaced by armed conflict were often excluded from the educational system for long periods, while, at the same time, the use of schools for displaced people during armed conflict might hamper access to education for resident children. ICRC undertook numerous education activities on behalf of children affected by armed conflict, such as promoting respect for international humanitarian law, in particular its provisions on access to education, through constant dialogue with parties to armed conflict.
48. To ensure that children could attend school in safety, ICRC set up safe spaces for educational purposes, rebuilt damaged schools and worked with teachers and students to strengthen their capacity to reduce their exposure and vulnerability to violence. It also supported the efforts of local authorities to ensure that displaced children and children deprived of their liberty had access to education. With regard to children formerly associated with armed forces or armed
15-17960
7/10
A/C.3/70/SR.17
groups, educational and vocational training programmes should be designed and implemented for the specific purpose of reintegrating them into their families and communities.
49. ICRC called upon parties to armed conflict to fulfil their obligations to ensure that children had access to education and comply with all other international humanitarian law provisions, including those governing the conduct of hostilities. Parties to armed conflict should make every possible effort to prevent the use of schools for purposes that could cause them to lose their protection as civilian objects. Recent initiatives to prevent schools and universities from becoming part of the battlefield could provide useful guidance in that regard. Finally, ICRC called on parties to armed conflict to ensure respect and protection for children in all circumstances.
50. Mr. Espiritu (Observer for the Sovereign Military Order of Malta) said that most deaths of children under 5 years of age could have been prevented with better prenatal, maternal and neonatal care; the Order had worked for years to provide that care to those most in need. In Uganda, it had developed a programme at Maracha Hospital to fight malnutrition, thanks to which almost 95 per cent of all malnourished children admitted were sent home well. In Cambodia, Malteser International had been working in 175 villages for better infant and maternal nutrition and had joined efforts with local health authorities and partner organizations in the Oddar Meanchey province, which had lagged behind the national average but now had the best indicators in the area of maternal and child health.
51. The Order's Holy Family Hospital, which was open to all, regardless of origin, religion or income, provided safe and modern birthing facilities for the population of Bethlehem. As the only hospital of its kind in the occupied Palestinian territories, it was a clear example of how the Order was working to preserve the rights of the most vulnerable even in one of the most conflicted areas in the world. The Order promised to continue working to prevent deaths of children under 5 years of age and supporting children growing up in conflict areas in partnership with the United Nations community.
52. Mr. Cassidy (International Labour Organization (ILO)) said that, although recent ILO estimates showed that child labour had fallen globally by 22 per cent
since 2000, there were still 168 million children mired in child labour, including 85 million children in hazardous work and 5.5 million children enslaved into forced labour. Through strong political will, better designed and integrated policies and more concerted action, the insidious practice of child labour, which had a negative impact on school enrolment, attendance and achievement and was a serious barrier to countries' overall development objectives, could be eliminated.
53. ILO, through its International Programme on the Elimination of Child Labour, had undertaken and supported a wide range of activities that were contributing to the elimination of child labour, including providing technical assistance to constituents, improving the global knowledge base, entering into international partnerships and promoting education for children in or at risk of child labour. It was increasingly focused on policy support and technical advisory services and was on the ground in 81 countries, directly helping children to disengage from child labour and assisting their families in developing strategies to address the consequent loss of income.
54. ILO welcomed Goal 8.7 of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and supported decisive action in that regard. It had taken targeted action to meet the needs of vulnerable and hard-to-reach children and developed a robust set of international standards, including two of the most widely ratified ILO conventions: the Minimum Age Convention, 1973 (No. 138) and the Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention, 1999 (No. 182). Furthermore, its Social Protection Floors Recommendation, 2012 (No. 202) provided guidance for building national social protection floors as a fundamental element of social security systems and reflected the international consensus on social security and social protection policies providing income security for all, including children.
55. In 2015, it had adopted Recommendation No. 204 concerning the Transition from the Informal to the Formal Economy, which was expected to help hundreds of millions of workers move out of the informal economy, which was where most child labour occurred. It would shortly be launching Alliance 8.7, a multi-stakeholder initiative aimed at strengthening ongoing efforts and pooling resources in order to scale up successful intervention and monitor progress in achieving Goal 8.7.
8/10
15-17960
A/C.3/70/SR.17
56. Ms. Mogobe (Botswana) said that her country continued to develop legislation and national policies to ensure the promotion and protection of the rights of children. The Government had taken a very deliberate approach to ensuring that education was made available free of cost for the first 12 years of schooling and that grants were provided for tertiary education. For almost two decades, Botswana had allocated nearly one-third of its national recurrent budget to education, convinced that it was the key to unlocking the capabilities of children and providing them with a solid foundation for realizing their full potential.
57. Botswana had managed to achieve universal access to education and near perfect gender parity. Her Government was currently concerned with strengthening the quality of education and ensuring that it was adapted for the job markets. Policies were in place to ensure that all children in Botswana were given equal access to education and other opportunities to enable them to pursue their options in life and participate fully in national development processes.
58. Her Government had channelled significant resources into the general health infrastructure and ensuring access to health services, which had led to improved maternal and child health, including a sizeable drop in maternal and child deaths and almost zero transmission of HIV from mother to child. However, Botswana would need the support of the United Nations system and development partners to reach zero transmission, as well as to ensure the full implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and related instruments.
Statements made in exercise of the right of reply.
59. Ms. Husanova (Russian Federation), in response to the statement made by the delegation of Georgia, said that South Ossetia and Abkhazia were independent States and that the Russian Federation had never exercised effective control over those territories. The State bodies of those two republics were independently exercising all State power in those territories and independently addressing problems, including in relation to ensuring the social protection of the population and observing human rights. They were doing rather well in that regard, especially considering the ordeal that the population had undergone.
60. The best way for her Georgian colleague to raise any issues was to make contact with the authorities of
Abkhazia and South Ossetia. Instead of doing so, the Georgian delegation once again was attempting to aggravate a humanitarian issue, without of course mentioning the suffering that thousands of Georgians, Abkhazians, South Ossetians and other nationalities had endured because of the armed conflict unleashed by Tbilisi in 2008. As for the alleged closing of schools that taught in the Georgian language in South Ossetia and Abkhazia, there were seven schools that taught in Georgian in South Ossetia alone. It would be good to know how many schools there were in Georgia that taught in the Ossetian language.
61. The statement by the Ukrainian delegation once again showed that it was continuing to use any opportunity to repeat its slanderous statements against the Russian Federation, which sounded particularly cynical at the current meeting on the rights of children, given that it was children who suffered the most as a result of Kyiv's so-called counter terrorist operations in eastern Ukraine, including the deliberate massive artillery, missile and bombing raids on residential areas and social infrastructure objects and the subsequent blockade of the region.
62. As a result of the actions of the Kyiv authorities, dozens of children had been killed or incapacitated, people did not receive social benefits or pensions, and children's access to food, water supplies and education was hindered. Such a policy was not in line with Ukraine's obligations under the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the European Convention on Human Rights or the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Ukraine should duly fulfil its obligations and concentrate on achieving sustainable peace and overcoming the difficult humanitarian consequences of the armed conflict that it had unleashed.
63. Ms. Kupradze (Georgia) said that in spite of the repeated assertions of the Russian Federation that it had nothing to do with the illegal occupation of Georgia's sovereign regions, the facts spoke for themselves. Her country acknowledged that it had numerous gaps in terms of promoting and protecting the rights of children, but it was trying to address them through introducing national legislation and joining international mechanisms that promoted and protected the rights of children. At least it was allowed to address those problems itself.
15-17960
9/10
A/C.3/70/SR.17
64. The reason why she had specifically focused in her statement on the violations of the human rights of children in the occupied territories of Georgia was that her Government was deprived of the opportunity to address the humanitarian problems of children affected by the conflict in those territories. It was of particular concern that the international monitoring mechanisms had no access to those territories. The statements delivered by the Russian Federation served only one purpose: to mislead the international community.
65. The Russian Federation remained in complete denial as to what was happening on the ground. As for the advice of her Russian colleague to make contact with the occupation regimes, the conflict was between Georgia and the Russian Federation, and as such, Georgia was talking to the other side in that conflict.
66. Mr. Yaremenko (Ukraine) said that he had the impression that the Russian delegation was simply trying to train its diplomats and did not realize that it was talking about human lives, deaths and the 1.5 million internally displaced persons in Ukraine, 25 per cent of whom were children, who were suffering every day. Under those circumstances, such arguments and conclusions should not be permitted. He earnestly requested his colleague from the Russian Federation to reflect on those points.
67. In Ukraine, people were dying every day because of the Russian Federation. His own family had suffered losses during the war, and it was therefore painful for him to hear such totally absurd accusations from people who seemed to live in a different, parallel world.
The meeting rose at 4.40 p.m.
10/10
15-17960