United Nations
A/C.3/72/SR.9
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
Official Records
Distr.: General 20 October 2017
Original: English
Third Committee
Summary record of the 9th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Friday, 6 October 2017, at 10 a.m.
Chair: Mr. Gunnarsson (Iceland)
later: Ms. Al-Temimi (Vice-Chair) (Qatar)
Contents
Agenda item 28: Advancement of women (continued)
(a) Advancement of women (continued)
(b) Implementation of the outcome of the Fourth World Conference on Women and of the twenty-third special session of the General Assembly (continued)
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Management Section (dms@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
17-17675 (E)
i iiiiii in in nil iiiiiiii
A/C.3/72/SR.9
The meeting was called to order at 10 a.m.
Agenda item 28: Advancement of women (continued) (A/72/38)
(a) Advancement of women (continued) (A/12/93, A/72/134, A/12/201 and A/12/215)
(b) Implementation of the outcome of the Fourth World Conference on Women and of the twenty-third special session of the General Assembly (continued) (A/12/203
and A/12/220)
1. Ms. Picco (Monaco) said that it was unacceptable that one in three women were subject to physical or sexual violence during their lifetime. On the basis of statistics showing that perpetrators were often close relatives or acquaintances, Monaco had strengthened its Criminal Code and Code of Criminal Procedures in 2011 to target all forms of violence or threat of violence by persons who were living or had lived under the same roof as a victim. Health, care providers, police and the judiciary were trained to take victims' best interests into consideration. All victims of domestic violence who dialled free and confidential hotlines or applied to associations or shelters were protected and informed of their rights. To raise public awareness of violence against women, Monaco had organized a poster campaign in honour of the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. Monaco was party to the Convention on Preventing and Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence and had supported the francophone plan on violence against women adopted at the Commission on the Status of Women in 2013. At the regional level, it supported a multi -year agreement with partner countries of the south Mediterranean to protect women's rights and combat violence against women, domestic violence and violence against children.
2. Her delegation welcomed the importance attached to education in the joint European Union and United Nations Spotlight Initiative to eliminate violence against women and girls. Monaco had sponsored the Security Council resolutions on conflict related sexual violence since 2008 and had recently signed a pact proposed by the Secretary-General on the elimination of exploitation and sexual offences during United Nations operations. With regard to human trafficking, Member States would be able to meet their commitments under the political declaration on the implementation of the United Nations Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking only by stepping up cooperation and information exchange and
comprehensively applying the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and its Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children.
3. Mr. Sisa (Botswana) said that his Government reaffirmed its commitment to gender equality and the empowerment of women and to several major international and regional gender-related instruments, as well as to Sustainable Development Goal 5. In order to achieve those aims, it had, in addition to establishing the National Gender Commission, introduced measures and initiatives that addressed gender equality, economic empowerment of women, gender mainstreaming, legislation on gender-based violence and sexual harassment, and awareness-raising activities.
4. Ms. Al-Emadi (Qatar) said that the adoption of Sustainable Development Goal 5 on achieving gender equality and empowering women and girls reflected the acknowledgement that those objectives were intricately linked to development. To achieve Goal 5, which could accelerate implementation of the other Sustainable Development Goals, all relevant stakeholders must forge dynamic and constructive partnerships and redouble their collective efforts to ensure implementation of all commitments and instruments adopted by the international community to promote the status of women and girls.
5. Empowering women had long been a priority for her country, whose Constitution enshrined the principles of equality, justice and equal opportunity for all citizens. Women's empowerment and equality were addressed in all national plans and strategies, including the Qatar National Vision 2030, which called for empowering women to participate fully in the political and economic spheres, particularly in decision-making roles, strengthening social safety nets for women and girls and providing women with decent work opportunities. Qatar was, moreover, making every effort to uphold its commitments pursuant to regional and international instruments addressing the human rights of women, including the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women. Qatari women had been appointed to senior positions in Government, the judiciary, the diplomatic corps, academia, and the police and security forces. A woman had also been appointed to the post of deputy prosecutor general.
6. Qatar was convinced that the eradication of violence against women could accelerate development and help create safer and more harmonious societies.
2/15
17-17675
A/C.3/72/SR.9
To that end, it had established a number of specialized bodies that sought to combat such violence and offer protection to its victims and facilitate their reintegration into society. It was, moreover, an active participant in United Nations efforts to promote gender equality and had fully supported the adoption of Security Council resolution 1325 (2000) on women and peace and security, as well as the global study on the implementation of that resolution.
7. Mr. Mahmadaminov (Tajikistan) said that the Commission on the Status of Women was the main intergovernmental forum for promoting gender equality and the empowerment of women and broadening women's participation in all spheres of life. Its sixty second session in March 2018 would provide a timely opportunity to discuss challenges and opportunities related to gender equality and the empowerment of rural women and girls.
8. Tajikistan had been working closely with international organizations and civil society to implement its gender policy in accordance with its commitment to the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action. In 2013, it had adopted a law on domestic violence to protect the rights of family members and guarantee legal, medical and psychological assistance to victims of domestic violence. In 2014, it had adopted a programme on the prevention of domestic violence for the period 2014-2023. It was currently implementing a national strategy to enhance of the role of women for the period 2011-2020, aimed at creating an enabling environment for women's advancement in all areas of public life and training specialists in issues related to gender equality. As a follow-up to the strategy, it had developed an action plan which, inter alia, boosted job creation and supported women's entrepreneurship.
9. Sustainable Development Goal 6 on water and sanitation was closely related to gender issues. It was regrettable that progress in mainstreaming gender and empowering women in relation to Goal 6 had thus far been slow, despite the emphasis placed in General Assembly resolution 71/222 on the full participation of all stakeholders, including women, in the implementation of the International Decade for Action “Water for Sustainable Development” 2018-2028 at all levels.
10. Ms. Rodriguez Camejo (Cuba) said that progress in the advancement of women had been fragile and insufficient. Women accounted for 70 per cent of the poor and two thirds of illiterate adults. Over 300,000 women died each year from avoidable complications during childbirth.
11. Cuba was proud of the progress it had made in the advancement of women. It had been the first country to sign the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women. Cuban laws guaranteed equal rights and possibilities for women, while the role of women in society and the family and traditional gender stereotypes were currently being reconsidered. Women received the same salary as men for work of equal value; were entitled to draw benefits if they became widowed, had disabilities or gave birth; could own land; and could take out loans. Women also had access to free education, which was vital for women's empowerment and the eradication of prejudices, discrimination and violence. Sexual and reproductive rights, including the right to abortion and freedom to choose the number and spacing of children, were guaranteed.
12. The Cuban Government reiterated its determination to continue developing its social model on the basis of justice, equality and solidarity, in strict compliance with international and regional treaties on the promotion of women. However, the elimination of violence against women required the elimination of all unilateral coercive measures. The economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed on Cuba by the United States was a form of violence inflicted on Cuban women and girls and therefore an obstacle to their advancement.
13. Mr. Thammavongsa (Lao People's Democratic Republic) said that the Lao Constitution enshrined a legal guarantee of equality between men and women in politics, the economy, culture, society and the family. To achieve the goal of gender equality, as contained in the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action and other international instruments, the Government had mainstreamed the empowerment and advancement of women into its five-year socioeconomic development plans; established the National Commission for the Advancement of Women; and approved the Development Plan for Lao Women to promote legal awareness among women, improve their education, skills, health and nutrition and create income generating opportunities. Since those actions required adequate means of implementation, the Government had introduced an allocation on support for the empowerment of women in all public agencies and sectors into the 2016 national budget.
14. To ensure continued progress in the advancement of women, the National Commission had organized annual meetings to discuss the improvement of the overall organizational structure; the translation into reality of the 2030 Agenda; and the implementation of national strategies and actions plans on gender
17-17675
3/15
A/C.3/72/SR.9
equality, maternal and children's affairs and the prevention and elimination of violence against women. The Government remained committed to all international conventions on women empowerment and gender equality, especially the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women.
15. Ms. Gebrekidan (Eritrea) said that most Eritreans were rural dwellers who relied on agriculture, livestock and fishing for income. As women were so important to subsistence in rural households, the empowerment of women was therefore a critical aspect of the country's development policy. Since independence, public investment had mostly been directed towards improving social and economic infrastructure in rural areas, with the aim of narrowing the gap between urban and rural areas. The Government had also taken steps to grant women equal access to economic resources, including land, and to encourage women to stand for representation at local and regional land distribution committees. As a result, 30 per cent of newly allocated land was currently granted to women.
16. Eritrea had been working relentlessly to improve access to health care and education. The Government and civil society organizations had expanded prenatal and postnatal health coverage to reduce the maternal and infant mortality rates, making Eritrea one of the few African countries to have met its health-related Millennium Development Goals. Regarding education, the recent construction of portable water stations across the country had helped alleviate the need for girls to fetch water instead of attending school. Girls who commuted long distances to school were provided with free bicycles. To prevent school absenteeism, girls were provided with sanitary pads free of charge. To ensure that no child was left behind, boarding and mobile schools had been established in remote areas and for nomadic communities.
17. Despite the progress made, women in Eritrea continued to face enormous challenges. In rural areas, they had to deal with climatic effects, negative social attitudes and a lack of human and institutional capacity for implementing social programmes. Such external factors as regional insecurity, prevailing occupation of sovereign Eritrean territories and unjust sanctions had also had a significant impact on the lives of all women.
18. Mr. Salam (Lebanon) said that his delegation had noted with satisfaction recent efforts to increase women's representation at all levels of the United Nations system and to promote the gender perspective in all aspects of the work of the United Nations.
Although there was increasing support for the principles of Planet 50-50 by 2030: Step It Up for Gender Equality, discrimination and violence against women and girls continued unabated in several parts of the world. Gender-based violence was a violation of every basic right, including sexual and reproductive rights, and hindered the participation of women and girls in their society and community as full and equal citizens.
19. Concerning his own region, he congratulated Saudi Arabia on its historic decision to waive restrictions prohibiting women from driving. Lebanon, for its part, was committed to the promotion and protection of women's and girls' rights, education for all, the elimination of discrimination and violence in all its forms and political and economic participation. The Lebanese Government worked closely with regional and international partners to achieve its gender-related goals, based on its commitment to the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action and the 2030 Agenda. It had recently drafted a law on sexual harassment and removed a statute from the Criminal Code which had allowed rapists to avoid prosecution if they married their victims. Lebanon continued to raise awareness of early and forced marriage and to promote women's economic and political participation, especially in rural areas.
20. Ms. Andujar (Dominican Republic) said that achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals, especially Goal 5, depended on Member States' ability to continue meeting their commitments under the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action. In the Dominican Republic, the 2030 National Development Strategy set gender equality as a fundamental right that should be mainstreamed in all policies. In that vein, in August 2017, the Dominican Republic had held a forum for all government departments on the significant role played by women in the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals and the importance of Goal 5. The Government had adopted other policies regarding wage equality; the training of women in technology-related subjects; entitlement to paid parental leave; the elimination of sexual harassment and discrimination against women; and the promotion of employment and entrepreneurial opportunities for women. It upheld the belief that women's participation in the highest level of decisionmaking bodies would make public policies more inclusive and sustainable.
21. Adolescent girls from marginalized groups or living in poverty were less likely to receive secondary school education and ran a greater risk of exploitation, abuse and violence. Violence against women was,
4/15
17-17675
A/C.3/72/SR.9
however, a complex problem which usually stemmed from sociocultural, economic and educational issues. In response, the Ministry of Women and civil society organizations were developing a number of initiatives, including a 24-hour emergency hotline and shelters for women victims of violence. The Ministry also ran an educational and awareness-raising campaign to induce communities to take responsibility for the prevention of violence.
22. Ms. Mwangi (Kenya) said that the Kenyan Government had developed a road map for the achievement of Goal 5, identifying linkages with the Sustainable Development Goals on ending poverty, ensuring healthy lives, education and the promotion of inclusive sustainable economic growth.
23. The quality of a country's labour force largely depended on the performance of women as mothers, caregivers and custodians of family health and welfare. The Kenyan Development Strategy 2018-2022 outlined measures to redistribute and financially support unpaid social and community work, whose burden was borne primarily by women. The country's focus on maternal health had helped to reduce maternal mortality by 25 per cent between 2009 and 2014.
24. The Government valued the importance of education, especially of vulnerable girls. It ensured that young mothers who conceived while in school returned to schooling; had expanded its provision of sanitary towels; and had recently introduced free secondary school education. Given the large number of women working in agriculture, it ran training courses on gender and agriculture to give women greater access to and control over production resources. The Climate Change Act of 2016 stipulated that the national strategy on climate awareness should be gender-sensitive and provide men and women equal access to climate change funds.
25. The international community should prioritize the eradication of gender-based violence. In addition to its Domestic Violence Act of 2015, Kenya had launched a national campaign to raise awareness of the scope and impact of the problem. The Government was also developing a four-year programme with the United Nations to bolster prevention of gender -based violence, better protect victims and ensure expeditious prosecution of cases. Kenya also had a 24-hour helpline to provide victims with rapid access to relevant services, including referral after violation.
26. Regardless of the country's achievements, unacceptably high numbers of women bore the brunt of discrimination, poverty, unemployment, violence and HIV infection and lacked access to education and
essential services. Women also contended with an unequal share of unpaid care roles, inflexible work options and outdated mindsets on women's leadership.
27. Ms. Krisnamurthi (Indonesia) said that gender equality and the empowerment of women and girls were fundamentally linked to sustainable development, and yet the potential of women and girls to contribute to and benefit from sustainable development as leaders, participants and agents of change had not been fully realized. The responsibility to bring about gender equality lay not only with individual men and women, but also with collective political and social institutions. Every society should have freedom to determine the best approach to the issue. Although quotas were a good starting point, it was also important to encourage the involvement of women in public life and promote the leadership capacity of women and girls.
28. Indonesia supported the Secretary-General's appeal for Member States to overcome entrenched prejudice, support engagement and activism, and promote gender equality and women's empowerment. It had established service centres for women and children victims of violence in all provinces and an increasing number of anti-trafficking communities. The current President, Joko Widodo, was a proponent of the HeForShe movement. His Government had launched the “3 Ends” programme to end violence against women and girls, trafficking in persons and barriers to economic justice. The programme, which focused not only on acts of violence but also contributing factors such as women's economic dependence on men, had increased community awareness, empowered women victims of violence and boosted underreporting of violence. To enhance women's economic empowerment, microloans were available to women owners of small and medium-sized companies. The Indonesia Women's Business Association, a business network for women, was also currently under development.
29. Archbishop Auza (Observer for the Holy See) said that his delegation welcomed the attention drawn to the situation of women and girls in rural areas, the scourge of violence against migrant women and collective efforts for the advancement of women. Whereas significant progress had been made in addressing gender parity among families of relative wealth, rural women and girls living in poverty still faced disadvantages in terms of schooling, literacy, and adult education and were therefore hindered from becoming dignified agents of their own development.
30. It was crucial to address the basic material needs of school-age girls in rural areas. The World Food
17-17675
5/15
A/C.3/72/SR.9
Programme partnership with local farmers, which provided meals to schoolchildren, was a positive example of integral development which not only satisfied material needs and reduced absenteeism, but also fostered education and increased market access for women. Young women in rural areas also bore the greatest burden when access to clean water and sanitation was not readily available. When families lacked access to safe drinkable water, girls were forced to neglect their studies to spend time collecting water, at the risk of being attacked.
31. The Holy See was deeply concerned by the global migration crisis and the vulnerability of migrant women and girls. Although the global community had a responsibility to welcome, protect, promote and integrate migrants and refugees, millions of women and girls often found themselves exploited by traffickers along perilous routes and even in host communities. His delegation strongly supported efforts by the international community to raise awareness of such issues and prevent the abhorrent violence perpetrated against migrant women and girls.
32. Mr. Bastida (Spain) said that Spain was a party to the Council of Europe Convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence. Its lower house of parliament had recently passed an historic act containing measures to tackle gender-based violence and allocate 1 billion euros to the issue over the subsequent five years. The Government was currently completing its evaluation of the 2013-2016 National Strategy for the Eradication of Violence against Women and drawing up a new strategy for the period 2018-2022. It was also in the process of implementing the Strategic Plan for Equal Opportunities, a national road map for equality; the Plan for Equal Opportunities for Women and Men in the Information Society 2014-2017; the Plan for the Promotion of Women in Rural Areas 2015-2018; and the Plan for Equality between Men and Women in Public Administration Bodies.
33. In the international arena, Spain had assumed leadership of the women, peace and security agenda. Since the adoption of Security Council resolution 2242 (2015) on women and peace and security, Spain had coordinated a network of women, peace and security focal points which met regularly to discuss Member States' experiences of the implementation of Security Council resolution 1325 (2000). In July 2015, drawing on input from civil society, the Spanish Government had approved a relevant national action plan which would be subject to review and monitoring biennially. Spain had also recently joined the Call to Action on Protection from Gender-based Violence in
Emergencies initiative and had presented Security Council resolution 2331 (2016) on human trafficking in conflict situations.
34. The inclusion of gender equality, gender-based violence and discrimination in the 2030 Agenda demonstrated that insufficient progress had been made in the advancement of women. Spain would therefore continue, both in its national capacity and in cooperation with multilateral human rights mechanisms, to fight for gender equality and the participation and leadership of women in political, economic, social and cultural life.
35. Mr. Saikal (Afghanistan) said that Afghan women were more involved in all aspects of life than ever before. A total of 69 members of parliament, 4 ministers, 9 deputy ministers and 5 ambassadors were women. In addition, women's access to education had improved markedly since 2001. The proportion of female students in primary and secondary schools had risen from almost zero to 40 per cent. A number of bodies had been established, including the Ministry of Women's Affairs, the Commission on the Elimination of Violence against Women, the Attorney General's Office for Violence Against Women and the Afghan Independent Human Rights Commission. An anti-harassment law had been passed and the minimum age of marriage was in the process of being raised to 18 years.
36. The national action plan on Security Council resolution 1325 (2000) on women, peace and security set out the need to support survivors of violence, engage boys and men in fighting violence against women, end impunity for crimes against women, increase female education and employment, and support civil society. The Afghanistan National Peace and Development Framework recognized the importance of empowering women. Under the national priority programme for the economic empowerment of women, women-owned businesses would receive technical and financial support and training in job skills and financial literacy.
37. Despite such gains, Afghan women continued to be disproportionately affected by poverty, poor infrastructure, conflict and insecurity. While there was a long way to go, his Government was determined to promote and protect women's rights. The advancement of women was inextricably linked to the nation's social advancement and sustainable economic development.
38. Ms. Abushawesh (Observer for the State of Palestine) said that while Palestinian society as a whole had suffered immeasurably as a result of the Israeli occupation, which was entering its sixth decade,
6/15
17-17675
A/C.3/72/SR.9
Palestinian women and girls faced additional gender specific human rights violations. In her report on her mission to Israel (A/HRC/35/30/Add.1), the Special Rapporteur on violence against women, its causes and consequences had said that particular challenges included violence against women by Israeli occupying forces and settlers, the construction and expansion of illegal settlements, home demolitions, the destruction of property and farmland, arbitrary detention and night raids.
39. In the West Bank, including East Jerusalem, home demolitions and evictions continued unabated, forcibly displacing hundreds of civilians, including women. Home demolitions had a severe psychological impact on women and could cause anxiety and depression. Meanwhile, the humanitarian situation in the Gaza Strip was worsening, with devastating consequences for the human rights of Palestinian women living there. The Gaza Strip could soon become unliveable if the situation did not improve immediately.
40. The State of Palestine was committed to eliminating violence against women and implementing various programmes and projects. The Government had set up the National Observatory on Violence against Women, which was intended to guide decision makers regarding the amendment of laws and policies to ensure the protection of women. In addition, a 24 -hour facility had been established in Ramallah where survivors of violence could receive essential services. However, in order to truly ensure the advancement of Palestinian women, the international community must redouble its efforts to hold Israel accountable for the crimes and violations committed and put an end to the occupation.
41. Mr. Barros Melet (Chile) said that his country welcomed the various reports of the Secretary-General, in particular his report on the improvement of the situation of women and girls in rural areas (A/72/207). Chile supported initiatives such as the voluntary compact on preventing and addressing sexual exploitation and abuse, the Senior Women Talent Pipeline and the System-wide Strategy on Gender Parity, as well as the creation of a Victims' Rights Advocate.
42. His Government had drafted a gender agenda, established a Ministry of Women and Gender Equity and was implementing an action plan on violence against women covering the period 2014-2018. Under the action plan, a bill had been brought before Congress on the right of women to a life free of violence. In addition, a law decriminalizing abortion in
certain circumstances had been passed. As part of the country's electoral reform, a gender quota had been introduced. At least 40 per cent of congressional candidates and political party members had to be women. Chile was implementing its second national action plan on Security Council resolution 1325 (2000), which emphasized the importance of educating and training workers.
43. President Bachelet was the Co-Chair of the HighLevel Steering Group of the Every Woman, Every Child initiative. At a high-level meeting held in Chile in July 2017, the Commitment to Action Santiago had been adopted, which was intended to advance the implementation of the Global Strategy for Women's, Children's and Adolescents' Health (2016-2030) and the Sustainable Development Goals in Latin America and the Caribbean.
44. Ms. von Ernst (Iceland) said that while the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women had achieved almost universal ratification, there were a high number of reservations, which affected its potential to be an effective tool. Some reservations were incompatible with the objective of the Convention and should be scrutinized and withdrawn, or at least made more specific.
45. The participation of women and girls was key to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals. Women and girls must have equal access to education, jobs, property and decision-making. However, gender equality would not be achieved if it were only discussed among women. Men, in particular those with the power to change gender norms, must be actively engaged in the fight for gender equality. The Prime Minister of Iceland was a HeForShe IMPACT Champion and Iceland had organized a number of conferences and meetings with a view to engaging men in leadership positions.
46. For the eighth year in a row, Iceland was the top performing country with regard to gender equality, according to the Global Gender Gap Index, yet complete gender equality had not been achieved, with Icelandic women still earning less than men. However, her country had pledged to eradicate the gender pay gap by 2022. In June 2017, Iceland had become the first country in the world to require companies and institutions with over 24 staff to obtain a certificate proving that they paid all employees the same amount, regardless of gender, ethnicity, sexuality or nationality. Noting that the Equal Pay Standard had been developed in accordance with international standards
17-17675
7/15
A/C.3/72/SR.9
and had the potential to be used universally, she called on all States to commit to achieving equal pay for all.
47. Ms. Ashipala (Namibia) said that there were many causes of gender-based violence, including harmful gender stereotypes, societal norms and economic dependency. The Ministry of Gender Equality and Child Welfare was undertaking advocacy work with a view to empowering women and girls and helping them to identify and address abusive situations. It was also raising awareness through initiatives such as a media campaign on zero tolerance for genderbased violence. In addition, the Government carried out outreach through an annual campaign entitled “16 days of activism against gender -based violence”, which was organized in collaboration with civil society.
48. Stiffer sentences had been introduced for perpetrators of gender-based violence, and victims received comprehensive support and assistance. However, many victims did not come forward. Under the Fifth National Development Plan, Namibia had pledged to enhance the financial and human capacity of service providers with a view to providing integrated prevention, protection and response services for victims of gender-based violence.
49. Noting the importance of economic empowerment for ending gender-based violence, she said that her Government was committed to eradicating poverty; promoting the economic advancement of women, in particular those from rural and marginalized communities; ensuring that women could secure decent and productive employment; promoting female entrepreneurship; and enhancing women's access to and control over productive resources and assets. The National Policy on Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises was intended to improve the business environment in both the formal and informal sectors, while the Income-Generating Activity Fund provided grants in the form of materials and equipment. Laws and policies had been introduced to ensure that women could enter the workforce and received equal benefits. Lastly, her Government had launched a number of initiatives to boost economic opportunities for women in rural areas, such as support setting up small businesses.
50. Mr. Perera (Sri Lanka) said that women and children had been the main victims of the long conflict in Sri Lanka. The question of female -headed households was a key challenge, as research had shown that they were vulnerable to poverty, violence and social exclusion owing to a lack of opportunities and access to services. Together with the United Nations, his Government had launched multiple programmes to
address the issues faced by female-headed households, such as safety and reproductive health. A study had been carried out to collect up-to-date data on femaleheaded households, the nature of current interventions and implementation gaps. The Ministry of Women and Child Affairs was working to implement the recommendations of the study.
51. Sri Lanka recognized the positive contribution that women could make as agents of reconciliation and peacebuilding. The Consultation Task Force on Reconciliation Mechanisms was chaired by a woman and the majority of its members were women. One of its key recommendations, which the Government was committed to achieving, was the need to equip women with the skills to participate in peacebuilding activities.
52. Women must be fully involved in disaster management. Women, in particular expectant mothers, were vulnerable during and after natural disasters, as health-care facilities were often compromised. During the recent floods, the Ministry of Women and Child Affairs and non-government organizations had engaged more women in relief work, giving them responsibilities such as distributing dignity kits, holding awareness-raising sessions on gender-based violence and running mobile medical clinics. In that connection, the Government had increased its efforts to equip women with disaster preparedness and leadership skills.
53. Ms. Al-Temimi (Qatar), Vice-Chair, took the Chair
54. Mr. Fialho Rocha (Cabo Verde) said that rural women and girls had an important role to play in economic growth, agricultural production, food security and nutrition, land and natural resource management and climate resilience. The needs of rural women and girls, which included high-quality education and health care, anti-poverty development projects and access to decent work in the agricultural sector, must be addressed through comprehensive and well-funded policies and positive discrimination.
55. Underlining its deep-rooted commitment to promoting women's rights, he said that his Government was implementing bold policies and strengthening its institutional capacity and legal framework with a view to ensuring universal access to education, improving family planning, expanding access to reproductive health care and safeguarding reproductive rights. With regard to the legal framework, the authorities were striving to promote gender parity by increasing the involvement of parliament and governmental and non-governmental organizations.
8/15
17-17675
A/C.3/72/SR.9
56. The authorities were also broadening political participation and leadership to ensure that women were better represented in decision-making positions, and paying particular attention to women and girls in vulnerable situations, such as migrants and female heads of household. The National Plan for Gender Equality, the National Plan to Combat Gender -based Violence and a special fund for victims were all important tools. In addition, the Gender Equality Observatory provided reliable statistics and data, which helped the Government to implement regional and international human rights instruments and monitor progress made and implementation gaps.
57. Mr. Shakirov (Kazakhstan) said that it was necessary to link women's advancement and pivotal issues contained in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Women must be empowered to serve as agents of change and be engaged in key United Nations processes. Inequities in education, employment, marriage, parenthood, reproductive health and political participation must be addressed through global policy directives and long-term macro strategies. In that connection, his country supported the work of the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN-Women) Multi-Country Office in Almaty, Kazakhstan.
58. Kazakhstan had progressive gender-oriented policies and programmes, underpinned by the recommendations of the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women and the Beijing Platform for Action, among other instruments. The National Commission on Women's Affairs, Family and Demographic Policy was responsible for introducing and amending legislation and monitoring policies and strategies on child protection, reproductive health, maternal mortality, disease and obstetric fistula. His Government had intensified efforts to eliminate violence against women and girls, including domestic and sexual violence, by implementing a joint technical support programme with United Nations agencies based in the region. The results of the programme, which would be announced in late 2017, would inform future measures to eliminate such violence.
59. Kazakhstan was committed to ensuring women's political participation and economic empowerment. Women accounted for 57 per cent of university graduates and held 55 per cent of State public offices and 27 per cent of parliamentary seats. They contributed 40 per cent of gross domestic product (GDP) and accounted for over 48 per cent of the workforce. The country had successfully implemented a10-year national action plan on gender equality covering the period from 2006 to 2016 and was due to
adopt a new national policy on family and gender in 2017.
60. Mr. Zambrana (Plurinational State of Bolivia) said that his country's Constitution contained a number of provisions on gender equality. For example, under the Constitution, women could not be discriminated against on the basis of their marital status, age, appearance or the number of children they had, and pregnant women and mothers of children under one year of age could not be fired. Other important measures included a ground-breaking Act that criminalized political violence and harassment, and an Act which guaranteed women a life free from violence, recognizing 16 types of violence against women and establishing prevention and protection measures and sanctions.
61. Thanks to the efforts of his Government and an Act on the electoral regime, women held 67 seats in the Chamber of Deputies and 16 in the Chamber of Senators, up from a combined total of just one in 1982. In 2016, his country had invested 187 million bolivianos in the Juana Azurduy voucher programme, which was intended to lower maternal and child mortality and chronic malnutrition in children under the age of 2. In order to benefit from the programme, mothers had to go for regular medical check -ups.
62. Gender equality was not only a human right, but also a means of achieving sustainable peace and development. In that connection, his country called for the creation of a specific covenant on the empowerment and inclusion of women in accordance with Goal 5, with a view to achieving gender equality and ensuring the full and effective participation of women and girls and their access to leadership and decision-making positions.
63. Ms. Al Jabri (United Arab Emirates) said that her Government had strengthened the country's policies and laws with a view to enhancing the status of women in society and promoting respect for their rights, in line with its obligations pursuant to relevant international instruments, including the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action and the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women.
64. To that end, her Government had, inter alia, adopted legislation providing for wage equality for men and women, as well as laws to protect women from all forms of violence. Furthermore, the General Women's Union and the Gender Balance Council were formulating strategies and policies to empower women and achieve gender equality in all sectors of the economy
17-17675
9/15
A/C.3/72/SR.9
65. Her country was also striving to increase the number of women in leadership and decision-making positions. Women held some 27 per cent of positions in Government and some 30 per cent of decision-making positions in the public sector. Furthermore, by promoting girls' education, her country had successfully closed its education gender gap, including at university level. The United Arab Emirates was also seeking to foster safe and supportive working environments for women and had amended the regulations on maternity and post-delivery leave to facilitate women's participation in the workforce.
66. The United Arab Emirates fully supported the women and peace and security agenda and had made women's empowerment a foreign policy priority. It was also a strong supporter of the Every Woman, Every Child initiative to reduce maternal and infant mortality, as over 50 per cent of such fatalities took place in fragile humanitarian situations and were thus preventable. It commended the work of UN-Women and welcomed the adoption of the UN-Women Strategic Plan 2018-2021. The United Arab Emirates continued to provide technical and financial support to UN-Women and hosted the UN-Women Gulf Liaison Office, which would support implementation of the Strategic Plan and the achievement of Sustainable Development Goal 5 in the Middle East region.
67. The United Arab Emirates was convinced that achieving gender parity in leadership positions in the United Nations would facilitate the work of the Organization. It was, moreover, necessary to step up efforts to incorporate a gender perspective in all United Nations programmes.
68. Mr. Tupouniua (Tonga) said that in addition to being a major part of one of the Sustainable Development Goals, the advancement of women was crucial to the achievement of the Goals overall. His delegation welcomed the work of the Secretary General towards gender parity at the United Nations, which included the appointment of the first woman from Tonga and the Pacific Islands region at the Under-Secretary-General level.
69. In his country, more women were now participating in the labour force, and made up a larger proportion of the recipients of scholarships and training. In addition, women constituted a significant percentage of the heads of Government ministries, diplomatic missions and consular posts, as well as leaders of non-governmental organizations and trade unions. Some 10 women were also running as candidates in the upcoming national elections, more than ever before.
70. In the interest of ending violence against women, his Government had entered into a partnership with UN-Women, resulting in the Ending Violence Against Women Programme. The Programme was further supported by the Government of Australia, for which his delegation expressed its gratitude. His Government would continue its collaboration with those and other institutions to advocate ending violence against women, provide policy guidance and work to prevent violence in the most cost-effective and sustainable way.
71. Mr. Mendoza-Garci'a (Costa Rica) said that the National Policy on Gender Equality and Equity was intended to promote the concept that care work was a shared social responsibility, help women to secure decent employment, improve education and sexual and reproductive health, combat violence against women and promote equal political participation. Unlike previous policies, it recognized that women spent more time than men carrying out unpaid and reproductive work. It was important to acknowledge the value of such work and reduce the burden on women so that they could secure productive employment. Costa Rica had expanded its care network programme, tripling the number of centres and providing dedicated centres for indigenous communities that were respectful of their traditions. As a result, many more children had access to education and care, enabling their mothers to join the workforce.
72. A policy had been introduced to combat all forms of violence against women, in particular femicide, by changing social roles, reducing impunity and improving protection for women. Victims of gender based violence should have access to social programmes that fostered their economic independence, with a view to breaking the cycle of poverty and violence. In addition, his Government was working with children and young people to promote cultural change by encouraging them to eschew violence, educating them about sexual and reproductive rights and teaching them to be respectful and sensitive to peoples' differences.
73. His Government's efforts to promote the economic advancement of women were based on the recommendations of the High-Level Panel on Women's Economic Empowerment. Ensuring women's economic empowerment was the key to achieving gender equality and the Sustainable Development Goals. At a meeting of the Panel in September 2017, the Secretary-General had noted that if women were able to participate equally in the economy, global GDP could increase by 26 per cent, the equivalent of $12 trillion, by 2025. Costa Rica was committed to ensuring that women had
10/15
17-17675
A/C.3/72/SR.9
access to paid employment opportunities, eliminating the gender pay gap and achieving true gender equality across the board.
74. Ms. Kipiani (Georgia) said that gender equality, the empowerment of women and gender mainstreaming were among the top priorities of her Government, which had carried out reforms and made significant progress. Legislative amendments had been introduced to bring domestic laws into compliance with international standards such as the Convention on Preventing and Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, and acts of violence, including stalking, forced sterilization and female genital mutilation had been criminalized. The legislative package passed by the Parliament had fully responded to the recommendations made by the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women and other relevant bodies. Another step that had been taken was the establishment of the Inter-Agency Commission for Gender Equality and Ending Violence Against Women and Girls, which comprised expert groups working on the issues of human rights, domestic violence, and women, peace and security. The Government had also elaborated, and begun implementing, legal frameworks and action plans concerning those issues in the context of relevant Security Council resolutions.
75. Her country was strongly committed to the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, and in order to support the implementation of Goal 5, special efforts had been made to ensure that all of the Goals had gendersensitive indicators as they were incorporated in her country.
76. Her Government was also committed to the promise of leaving no one behind during the implementation of the Agenda, but women living in the occupied regions of Georgia, where no international monitoring missions were allowed, were deprived of basic needs, decent work, and access to social protection, education and medical care. Unfortunately, barbed-wire fences and other artificial barriers along the occupation line seriously impeded their freedom of movement.
77. Mr. Ugurluoglu (Turkey) said that his country was committed to improving living standards and the rights of women and girls, and that the equality of women and men was one of the basic principles of the Constitution. His Government had undertaken several efforts towards upholding the rights of women, including supporting the work of the Committee on Equality of Opportunity for Women and Men and the
establishment of a UN-Women regional office in Istanbul.
78. His Government took very seriously the issue of violence against women, and, demonstrating that commitment, it had contributed to the elaboration of the Convention on Preventing and Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence and had been the first country to sign and ratify it. In 2016 it had also begun the National Action Plan on Combating Violence Against Women 2016-2020, which included monitoring and assessment requirements which were binding and which assigned greater responsibility to relevant institutions. A number of other support mechanisms had also been established, such as shelters for women who were victims of violence, counselling centres and hotlines. In the context of humanitarian action, his Government was pleased to see that gender equality and the empowerment of women and girls had become an overarching theme for commitments, and was currently providing for all humanitarian, health and education needs of millions of women and girls under temporary protection in Turkey who had fled the devastation in their home countries. In temporary protection shelters the Turkish authorities had, in cooperation with international partners, also taken steps to enable a gender-sensitive environment, and resolutely undertook to prevent human trafficking of those women and girls seeking safety and security. They would have an important role to play in shaping the futures of their respective countries.
79. Mr. Shingiro (Burundi) said that despite difficult circumstances due to recurring conflicts in his country, his Government had taken steps to improve the participation of women in political life, and had prioritized several national action plans and strategies addressing gender, gender-based violence and poverty reduction. Women currently occupied more than 30 per cent of the positions in the Government, and held posts up to the level of General in the defence and security sectors. It was understood that the elimination of poverty among rural women would be impossible unless they were able to fully participate in the economic and political life of the country. Therefore the Government had established a fund to finance microcredit for women in associations for the development of income -generating activities.
80. In 2016 a law addressing sexual violence had been adopted, and legislative measures to strengthen the punishment of perpetrators of crimes against women were also already in place. Government policies to reduce discrepancies between girls and boys in education had produced results and parity had been achieved. His Government was endeavouring to find
17-17675
11/15
A/C.3/72/SR.9
solutions to the problem of students dropping out of school, which was linked in part to family economic factors and premature pregnancies. In the area of public health, the expansion of health care infrastructure and subsidies for children younger than five years and mothers at childbirth had reduced infant mortality and maternal morbidity. With regard to employment, recruitment in the defence and security forces had opened up more jobs for women that had previously been occupied only by men, while at the same time, the Government also encouraged women to participate in import and export, cross -border trade and other diversified businesses. Finally, the number of women participating in peacebuilding work in his country had grown, thanks to the support of UN-Women.
81. Mr. Ajayi (Nigeria) said that women played a vital role in the quest to diversify the global economy and implement the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development; no country could achieve its full potential without harnessing their competencies. His Government had launched several campaigns and established funds to support their equitable integration into the economy and the political environment. It had begun revising discriminatory laws and practices so that women would be better protected against sexual and gender-based violence; an important component of that effort was the sensitization of men and boys to true gender equality and the well-being of their female counterparts. The new gender-responsive budgeting model was applied to gender-specific expenditures and had already had positive effects on millions of people. The Women's Fund for Economic Empowerment provided soft loans to female entrepreneurs to expand their businesses and improve skills and knowledge, while the Rural Finance Institution Building Programme boosted income and living conditions, especially for households headed by women.
82. In addition, a series of irrigation projects, credit guarantee schemes and dedicated funds had been established to improve access to natural resources in rural areas, guarantee loans issued to farmers for agricultural production, and support access to microcredit at the community level across the country. A national science education policy was also being implemented to encourage girls to study scientific subjects, and an expanded range of scholarships was being offered to enable more women to receive training to become commercial pilots, pharmacists and medical doctors. With more women working in the medical field, it was to be hoped that the negative attitudes towards girls' education that were pervasive in some parts of the country would be diminished.
83. His delegation called on the global community to emphasize programmes and policies that advanced the rights and welfare of women and girls, just as his Government would continue to do.
84. Ms. Rasheed (Maldives) said that the advancement of women could happen only when policy statements were translated into focused and meaningful action. To that end, her Government had undertaken such projects as the Gender Equality Act and action plans to further increase women's participation and advancement in society. At the leadership level there was still a long way to go, which was a consequence of prevailing cultural and traditional norms. However, efforts by the Government to increase the number of women serving in leadership positions in Government agencies, commissions and State-owned enterprises had borne results. For instance, many more women now held local and atoll council seats than in the past. The Government had also introduced special loan schemes for women, which provided easier access to funding for small- and medium-sized enterprises and allowed training and workshops to be held at the island level to make the workforce more inclusive. In the area of education, her country had made remarkable achievements, having already reached gender parity in enrolment and the completion of primary and secondary schooling.
85. Her country had enacted stringent laws and policies against sexual and gender-based violence, one of the most prevalent violations of human rights. Laws covering domestic violence, sexual harassment, sexual offenses and marital rape had been enacted over the previous few years, though the Government recognized that the cultivation of a culture of gender empowerment was also necessary in order to reap the full benefit of legislative interventions.
86. Her delegation supported the call of the Special Rapporteur on violence against women, its cause and consequences for a global implementation plan on violence against women. The lack of full incorporation and application of international norms posed a great challenge to addressing gender-based violence against women. The international community should promise to take more concrete steps to champion gender equality in the respective countries, empower women and girls to choose their own paths in life, and ensure that they were at the table when decisions were being made.
87. Ms. Flores Herrera (Panama) said that the National Women's Institute, which had been established in 2008, had been strengthened through various initiatives. The United Nations Development
12/15
17-17675
A/C.3/72/SR.9
Programme had helped to restructure the Institute in line with gender equality legislation and policies, with a view to making it more effective. The Institute had succeeded in getting the Government to adopt a gender equality pact, which had been years in the making. The pact called for the introduction of gender-equality policies in the private sector with a view to closing the gender gap in the workplace. Noting the important role of the private sector in meeting the Sustainable Development Goals, she said that achieving gender equality would make businesses more competitive.
88. Her Government had taken a number of practical steps to promote gender equality. Pursuant to Act 56 of 2017, at least 30 per cent of directors on the boards of State entities and regulated companies had to be women. Panama was playing a leading role in the Equal Pay International Coalition, an initiative of UN-Women, and had been selected to launch and promote the initiative at the regional level. Her country had adapted its legislation and made a firm political commitment to preventing violence against women. Prior to the sixty -first session of the Commission on the Status of Women, a regional consultation for Latin American and Caribbean countries had been held in Panama in February 2017, leading to the adoption of the Declaration of Panama.
89. Mr. Kang Sangwook (Republic of Korea) said that his delegation commended the efforts of the Secretary-General to achieve gender parity across the United Nations system, which could serve as a good example to emulate. His Government was working to mainstream gender equality across Korean society, and had undertaken several relevant initiatives. A number of female ministers had been appointed, for instance, thus meeting the target of 30 per cent of cabinet members being women, while the needs of women and girls would continue to be prioritized in international development cooperation. Sexual violence in conflict was a serious violation of women's dignity and human rights, and his Government would spare no effort to prevent such heinous crimes and assist victims.
90. On the basis of the understanding that women should be agents of peacebuilding and peacekeeping, his country had contributed to the work of UN-Women, the Peacebuilding Commission and the Peacebuilding Support Office, and as Chair of the Commission during the current year, his delegation would seek to better reflect gender perspectives in its activities.
91. Ms. Kanjanasoon (Thailand) said that gender equality and the empowerment of women were indispensable components of sustainable development, and efforts made to those ends would accelerate the
achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals. Her Government was committed to gender parity and the mainstreaming of gender perspectives into policymaking at all levels, and continued to improve domestic legislation and programmes in order to implement international instruments and documents such as the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action.
92. In accordance with commitments made by the Prime Minister in 2015, her country had made progress in developing gender-sensitive educational curricula, collecting sex-disaggregated data and promoting gender-responsive budgeting. Women accounted for 64 per cent of the workforce, and although they generally enjoyed the same levels of pay as their male counterparts, marginalized groups such as women with disabilities and rural and migrant women still faced challenges and risks of abuse and exploitation. Legal protections and economic and social policies had therefore been put in place to assist them.
93. In view of the major role that women entrepreneurs played in Thai society, the Government had been working with major financial institutions in the country to improve access to financing for women entrepreneurs involved with small- and medium-sized enterprises, micro-enterprises and start-up technology companies. It also supported the recommendations contained in the 2017 report of the United Nations Secretary-General's High-Level Panel on Women's Economic Empowerment. The representation of women in Government institutions at the executive level and in local administrative bodies still needed to be increased, and efforts would be made in that regard. In the area of peace and security, her Government was currently finalizing a set of national guidelines to strengthen the role of women in preventive diplomacy and conflict situations.
94. In order to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals, the problem of gender inequality needed to be addressed at its roots, and all of society must work together to change discriminatory values and attitudes. Her delegation welcomed the efforts of United Nations agencies, the Secretary-General, Member States, and non-governmental sectors.
95. Mr. Alghareeb (Bahrain) said that said that his country was striving to uphold its obligations pursuant to international instruments on women's rights, including the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women. In 2017, Bahrain had amended its family law with a view to strengthening legal protections for Bahraini families
17-17675
13/15
A/C.3/72/SR.9
and enhancing family cohesion, and was updating its legal framework to entrench the principle of gender equality for men and women in terms of their rights and duties.
96. As part of its ongoing reform process, Bahrain had established the Supreme Council for Women, which brought together representatives of relevant governmental bodies and civil society organizations and had been entrusted with formulating and putting in place national plans and policies for improving the situation of women in the country. The Supreme Council for Women was overseeing implementation of the National Plan for the Advancement of Bahraini Women 2013-2022, which sought, inter alia, to promote family stability, ensure equal opportunities for women and men, encourage lifelong learning for women and improve women's quality of life. In March 2017, the Supreme Council had launched a global award for women's empowerment.
97. Bahrain had also launched programmes to promote the economic empowerment of women and increase their participation in the labour market. Women had comprised 33 per cent of the country's workforce in 2014 and held 51 per cent of public sector jobs. They had also comprised 38 per cent of entrepreneurs, 74 per cent of teachers and academics, 55 per cent of lawyers, 37 per cent of doctors and 25 per cent of engineers. Women also comprised a high proportion of workers in the country's finance and banking sectors. Furthermore some 61 per cent of university graduates in Bahrain were women.
98. Mr. Ntonga (Zimbabwe) said that in his country, the role of women as caregivers in the family was a burden to them, restricted their free time, and propelled them towards soft, low-paid sectors and occupations. The majority of women in Zimbabwe and elsewhere in Africa were employed in either the agricultural or the informal sector and had limited access to education and consequently possessed fewer of the skills required for the job market. His Government had made several legislative, policy and administrative changes to ensure gender equality and the economic empowerment of women. The Zimbabwe Gender Commission had been established to monitor the implementation of gender related laws, policies, and regional and international instruments, and to encourage policies that promoted gender equality and women in leadership positions. The Domestic Violence Act addressed gender-based violence and provided for relief for and protection of victims of such violence. A programme for land reform and resettlement had reserved a quota for women to apply for agricultural land under smallholder and commercial farming schemes, enabling more women to
own land. A women's microfinance bank would provide financing to women at concessionary rates and flexible terms not afforded by conventional banks due to a lack of collateral. The National Gender Policy prioritized equal access to and control and ownership of media and information and communications technologies. The Government had outlawed statutes, traditions, customs and cultural practices that infringed upon the rights of women as provided for by the Constitution, and gender focal points had been appointed in all Government ministries to facilitate the gender mainstreaming process.
99. Ms. Sukkar (Jordan) said that her Government had submitted its sixth periodic report to the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women in 2017. Several legislative amendments had been adopted, including a law to increase the percentage of Parliament seats allocated for women, a law on decentralization, an amendment to the military retirement law to give women equal rights in appointment and career advancement, a regulation on shelters for women in danger, and a law to provide protection from domestic violence. On the occasion of International Women's Day, a new by-law on flexible working hours came into effect, benefiting women and men and aiming to boost economic participation in society by workers with family responsibilities, with disabilities or attending university. The national health sector database had been updated, and comprehensive sex-disaggregated data on the improvement of the situation of women was being prepared.
100. Several Government ministries, departments and units were cooperating with additional partners to combat violence in all its forms, including sexual violence and trafficking, and to offer support, shelter, rehabilitation, education, health care, legal services and protection to victims. Another achievement was that the article of the penal code that had allowed a perpetrator of sexual assault to marry his victim to escape punishment had recently been abolished.
101. Her Government sought to increase women's participation in all areas of decision-making, and had conducted several capacity-building programmes for women in middle management positions in the public sector since 2015.
102. Ms. Elmansouri (Tunisia) said that gender equality was not only an inalienable right, but also a vital component in building a peaceful, prosperous and sustainable world in which no one was left behind. Its attainment should serve as motivation for the international community to combat all forms of marginalization, stigmatization and violence against
14/15
17-17675
A/C.3/72/SR.9
women. Her country had made many efforts for the betterment of women, including the promulgation of the Code of Personal Status and the 2014 adoption of the Constitution, which guaranteed the principle of equality and required the State to protect the rights of women and take measures necessary to eliminate gender-based violence.
103. In July the Parliament had unanimously adopted a comprehensive law concerning violence against women, the first of its kind, which promoted the empowerment of women by way of concrete measures to combat economic, sexual, political and psychological violence against them. Gender aspects had been incorporated into various development initiatives, including the formulation of a national policy to advance gender equality in professional development, education and other areas. Partnerships between the public and private sectors and civil society had enabled many initiatives to assist rural women with access to education, decent work and opportunities for starting businesses, and approximately 550 rural women had already benefited from them as owners of micro -businesses. Her Government had also adopted a national strategy for the economic and social empowerment of rural women for the period 2017-2020, the implementation of which had garnered the support of the international community, United Nations agencies and funding partners alike.
104. Ms. Boucher (Canada) said that in 2017 her Government had, for the first time, presented a gender statement in the federal budget that focused on the impact of Government investments on different groups of women and men and highlighted budget measures to support greater gender equality. The recently introduced Strategy to Prevent and Address Gender Based Violence had laid the foundation for coordination to improve the domestic response to gender-based violence. The Feminist International Assistance Policy, launched in June 2017, was guided by the notion that gender equality and the empowerment of women and girls was the most effective way to eliminate poverty and forge sustainable peace and development, and put women and girls at the heart of her country's international efforts. The world benefited when all women and girls were able to make decisions about their bodies, lives and futures, free from discrimination, coercion and violence. Therefore her Government supported the advancement of sexual and reproductive health and rights, going beyond the provision of health services to include the prevention of and response to sexual and
gender-based violence such as child, early and forced marriage and female genital mutilation.
105. The challenges faced by women living in rural and remote areas, particularly the relatively large population of Indigenous women, included lower rates of employment and participation in the labour force and over-representation in low-income situations. As Canada was a “work in progress”, her delegation looked forward to working with Member States to advance the rights of women, and her Government was committed to working with Indigenous leaders to improve the situation for Indigenous people.
The meeting rose at 12.55 p.m.
17-17675
15/15