United Nations
A/C.3/70/SR.19
General Assembly
Seventieth session
Official Records
Distr.: General 20 November 2015
Original: English
Third Committee
Summary record of the 19th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Tuesday, 20 October 2015, at 10 a.m.
Chair: Mr. Mohamed (Vice-Chair) (Guyana)
Contents
Agenda item 72: Promotion and protection of human rights (a) Implementation of human rights instruments
(d) Comprehensive implementation of and follow-up to the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Control Unit (srcorrections@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
15-18046 (E)
III II11 III MWMWV
A/C.3/70/SR.19
In the absence of Mr. Hilale (Morocco), Mr. Mohamed (Guyana), Vice-Chair, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 72: Promotion and protection of human rights (A/70/40)
(a) Implementation of human rights instruments
(A/70/44, A/70/48, A/70/55, A/70/223, A/70/273, A/70/299, A/70/302 and A/70/425)
(d) Comprehensive implementation of and followup to the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action (A/70/36)
1. Mr. Simonovic (Assistant Secretary-General for Human Rights), introducing the report of the Secretary-General on the United Nations Voluntary Fund for Victims of Torture (A/70/223), said that in order to respond adequately to the ever increasing demands for assistance, the Board of Trustees of the Fund estimated that the Fund would need to receive $12 million on a yearly basis. The Secretary-General appealed to Member States and other stakeholders to contribute to the Fund.
2. Introducing the report of the Secretary-General on the United Nations Voluntary Trust Fund on Contemporary Forms of Slavery (A/70/299), he said that in 2015 the Fund was supporting projects in 35 countries in five regions of the world, providing many forms of assistance to some 30,000 victims of modern slavery. The Board of Trustees continued to be concerned about the insufficient level of contributions received, as the contributions received in 2014 had only covered a third of the target amount of $2 million.
3. Introducing the note of the Secretary-General on the Special Fund established by the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment (A/70/273), he said that the Fund's critical financial situation seriously compromised its capacity to support States in implementing recommendations made by the Subcommittee on Prevention of Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment of the Committee against Torture.
4. Introducing the note by the Secretary-General on the implementation of human rights instruments (A/70/302), he said that the Chairs of the human rights treaty bodies had met in San Jose from 22 to 26 June
2015 and had engaged with States, regional human rights mechanisms, national human rights institutions and civil society in the Americas to consider the implementation of General Assembly resolution 68/268 on strengthening and enhancing the effective functioning of the human rights treaty body system, as well as to follow-up the recommendations made at their twenty-sixth meeting, and had endorsed the Guidelines against Intimidation or Reprisals (San Jose Guidelines).
5. Mr. Duorak (Czech Republic) said that the Czech Republic welcomed the new competitive style of electing members of the human rights treaty bodies.
6. Mr. Hassani Nejad Pirkouhi (Islamic Republic of Iran) said that the Guidelines against Intimidation or Reprisals (San Jose Guidelines) referred to in paragraph 41 of the note by the Secretary-General on the implementation of human rights instruments (A70/302) had not been discussed or negotiated in an intergovernmental process. Such important and sensitive guidelines should be drafted in a transparent and inclusive manner with the full and effective engagement and participation of the States parties to the treaties. His delegation therefore disassociated itself from paragraph 41 of that document.
7. Ms. Shlychkova (Russian Federation) asked what opportunities there were for further progress towards preventing extraterritorial law enforcement and extraordinary rendition, which could lead to torture, and what plans there were to deepen the discussion on developing appropriate mechanisms.
8. Mr. Ivan Simonovic (Assistant SecretaryGeneral for Human Rights) recalled that in paragraph 8 of General Assembly resolution 68/268 States had been urged to take all appropriate action to prevent and eliminate intimidation and reprisals against individuals and groups for their contribution to the work of the human rights treaty bodies. The San Jose Guidelines had already been adopted by the Committee on Enforced Disappearances and the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, while other treaty bodies were considering adopting them in the near future. The Committee against Torture had adopted its own set of guidelines based on the San Jose Guidelines. He would leave it to the Special Rapporteur to address the issue of rendition.
9. Mr. Grossman (Chair of the Committee against Torture), introducing the report of the Committee
2/13
15-18046
A/C.3/70/SR.19
against Torture (A/70/44), said that the relevance of the Convention against Torture was poignantly evident amid the surging mass migrations around the world. The principle of non-refoulement was absolute and applied to all, even people who might not qualify as refugees or asylum seekers, meaning States must assess the risk of torture of each individual and refrain from deporting anyone to a place where he or she would be at risk of torture.
10. Since the entry into force of the Convention, 158 States had ratified it and 384 reports had been submitted to the Committee, 362 of which had been examined; the others would be examined in the November 2015 and subsequent sessions. In each case, the Committee had adopted concluding observations as part of a constructive dialogue with the State party, identifying positive elements and indicating serious issues that required further action. He called upon the 28 States that had ratified the Convention but had not submitted an initial report to the Committee to do so promptly. Eight States that had already presented an initial or periodic report had not submitted a report for over a decade. Since 1988, the Committee had registered 699 individual complaints concerning 35 States parties, of which 197 had been discontinued and 70 had been found inadmissible. Final decisions on the merits had been issued for 272 complaints, 107 of which had resulted in findings of violations of the Convention. The Committee had a current backlog of 160 complaints pending review. Unfortunately, only 66 of the 158 States parties to the Convention were able to submit complaints to the Committee because many States had not yet recognized the Committee's competence to receive and consider communications under article 22.
11. The Committee had adopted three general comments to help with the interpretation of specific articles of the Convention, and the third related to article 14 on redress and rehabilitation. However, there had been questions about the amount of time that the Committee could devote to the task of interpretation when it also had to review State party reports and individual communications. The Committee had decided to revise general comment No. 1 on article 3 in light of new developments in the area of non-refoulement over the past two decades. It had undertaken nine confidential inquiries into allegations of a systematic practice of torture in States parties and was presently considering others. Unfortunately,
13 States parties had not recognized the Committee's competence in that regard. He called upon States that had not yet ratified the Convention to do so and upon those that were already party to it to recognize all the Convention's procedures.
12. The Committee had been actively engaged in the treaty body strengthening process. In June 2015, he had participated in the twenty-seventh meeting of Chairs of the human rights treaty bodies, at which the San Jose Guidelines had been adopted. The Committee had also recently adopted guidelines on the receipt and handling of allegations of reprisals against individuals and organizations cooperating with the Committee. It had been a pioneer in the creation of a simplified reporting procedure based on a list of issues prior to reporting, which it was in the process of evaluating. It had appointed rapporteurs on reprisals and follow-up. It would continue to analyse how to strengthen the interactive dialogues. The Committee had set aside additional time for communications in light of the backlog of pending individual complaints, which had been caused by the secretariat's lack of resources. It had supported the Convention against Torture Initiative, which was a platform for sharing positive reasons to ratify the Convention and for discussing obstacles and how to extend the protection provided by the Convention.
13. Implementation of the Convention was only as strong as the network of stakeholders; the courts, civil society organizations, national human rights institutions, United Nations agencies, funds, programmes and country teams, United Nations and national anti-torture mechanisms, and parliamentary and interministerial human rights committees all played an important role. The Committee would continue to seek ways to improve its work. Although there might not be less torture in the world since the adoption of the Convention, the Committee had saved lives, improved conditions and made progress in different areas. With the cooperation of all, it would be possible to achieve a world free of torture.
14. Ms. Perez Gomez (Colombia) said that Columbia had presented its fifth periodic report to the Committee against Torture in May 2015 and would continue to focus on the challenges it faced, which included overcrowding in prisons, sexual violence against women and girls, risks faced by vulnerable groups and the provision of care and reparations for victims of torture. The Committee's recommendations
15-18046
3/13
A/C.3/70/SR.19
were already being implemented. In May 2015, her Government had revised its penitentiary and detention policy, which sought to address the major issues affecting the penitentiary system and provide comprehensive solutions, which would include the allocation of budgetary resources. In May 2016, Colombia would provide information on follow -up to the recommendations that it had received from the Committee.
15. Ms. Tschampa (Observer for the European Union) said that the European Union welcomed the Committee's efforts to further improve and streamline its procedures and establish multiple working groups. She asked the Chair to provide more information on initiatives that had been and would be implemented to that end and to elaborate on how States parties could best support those efforts.
16. Mr. Storrar (United Kingdom) asked the Chair of the Committee to share his thoughts on the main constraints and challenges encountered in the efforts to achieve universal ratification of the Convention and increase implementation of its provisions by States parties.
17. Ms. Nescher (Liechtenstein) said that widespread impunity for police brutality seemed to be a particular challenge in many countries. She asked whether there had been any improvement in the investigation of such cases and whether it had become easier for victims of abuse to obtain redress. Liechtenstein welcomed the simplified reporting procedure and had submitted its first report in that format at the end of 2014. She asked the Chair to elaborate on his overall experience with that format and where he saw room for improvement.
18. Mr. Jabbar (Iraq) said that many citizens of his country were being subjected to torture, ill treatment, mass executions, sexual violence, slavery, abduction and human trafficking, particularly of women and girls, in the areas of Iraq taken over by Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). His Government was documenting all those crimes so that the perpetrators could be arrested and brought before the courts. It strove to provide essential services to those who had survived injury at the hands of terrorist ISIL gangs and those who had been liberated by the Iraqi forces, providing them with shelter, medical treatment and several other basic services. He asked what kind of urgent assistance the Committee could provide for Iraq in light of the exceptional circumstances it was
experiencing in terms of combating terrorism on behalf of the world.
19. Ms. Garfieldt Kofoed (Denmark) said that the global fight against torture had been a constant priority for Denmark, which had once again initiated the resolution against torture in 2015. Reprisals were a matter of growing concern for the international community, and her Government supported the San Jose Guidelines. She asked the Chair of the Committee against Torture to share any new steps taken by the Committee to combat intimidation and reprisals in light of the new guidelines. She also wanted to know what States parties could do to more effectively address the continued reports of intimidation and reprisals against individuals and groups.
20. Ms. Mammadova (Azerbaijan) said that in Azerbaijan the Commission for Human Rights fulfilled the role of the national preventive mechanism in accordance with the Optional Protocol. In response to the recommendations made by the Committee against Torture, changes had been made to the criminal court of Azerbaijan to bring it into line with the Convention. Azerbaijan had submitted its fourth periodic report on the implementation of the Convention and looked forward to constructive discussions with the Committee in November 2015.
21. Ms. Aguayo (Chile) said that Mr. Grossman's fundamental work in the efforts to combat torture was reflected in general comment No. 3 and in dialogues with States.
22. Mr. Grossman (Chair of the Committee against Torture), responding to questions, said that the Committee against Torture had been the first treaty body to use the simplified reporting procedure, which limited expenses and ensured a more focused dialogue. Almost 90 per cent of States participated in the voluntary procedure, although they also had the right to choose not to do so.
23. The Committee had adopted guidelines on reprisals and had designated rapporteurs to follow up on allegations of reprisals. Individuals should be free to share their comments and opinions with the Committee, and States should know that the Committee members did not regard those comments and opinions as final. The Committee's reprisal letters were placed on its website. He invited States to collaborate with the Committee if they wished to change the definition of reprisals. States should not
4/13
15-18046
A/C.3/70/SR.19
accept reprisals but should report them. The Committee had also adopted guidelines for follow -up to concluding observations. Both sets of guidelines had been developed in collaborative efforts with the Committee's counterparts in Geneva and with the involvement of State representatives and civil society.
24. As part of the review of its working methods, the Committee had given States additional time to answer questions during the dialogue. In view of developments relating to issues such as refoulement and extraordinary rendition, States and civil society would be asked to contribute to the proposal to adopt a revised version of general comment No. 1. Reporting must be done in a timely manner and examine what was happening in practice, not just focus on standards or legal norms provided by the State. Disaggregated data was essential. The Committee hoped to eliminate the backlog and decrease the time taken to issue its decisions.
25. One of the main constraints on reaching universal ratification of the Convention was capacity -building. Some States had difficulty with submitting reports to the numerous treaty bodies in a timely manner. Other States chose not to ratify owing to a lack of political will, and that was their sovereign right. However, the prohibition of torture was not dependent on ratification of the Convention - it was a general principle of customary law and of jus cogens. The Convention against Torture Initiative was an important mechanism for examining good practices, building capacity and providing assistance. It had brought the issue of ratification to the regions and had served as a way of facilitating communication and strengthening prohibition.
26. Independent mechanisms of investigation were essential, not just for the police but also for other areas of the judiciary, and police training also played a preventive role. Police officers were often placed in challenging situations and needed to be able to react quickly and effectively, while complying with the Convention. The United Nations system could play a significant role in training; the Manual on the Effective Investigation and Documentation of Torture and other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment served as an important training guideline. Places of detention should be equipped with cameras, which would also serve to safeguard against false accusations.
27. States that found themselves in a situation similar to that of Iraq should record violations in order to investigate and punish offenders and provide rehabilitation and compensation for the victims. The United Nations, through various instruments and mechanisms, could provide assistance with the recording of violations and with redress and rehabilitation.
28. Mr. Evans (Chair of the Subcommittee on Prevention of Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment), introducing the Subcommittee's eighth annual report (CAT/C/54/2) and providing updates on its subsequent activities, said that the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment was currently in force in 80 countries, with Belize, Mongolia, South Sudan and Rwanda having ratified it in 2015. Accordingly, over half of the States parties to the Convention were also party to the Optional Protocol. He reiterated his support for the Convention against Torture Initiative led by Chile, Denmark, Ghana, Indonesia and Morocco. The Convention and its Protocol were complementary, and torture prevention was crucial for ensuring that the maximum benefit was obtained from the international mechanisms put in place to address torture and ill treatment in places of detention.
29. The Subcommittee was seeking to undertake more field visits in response to the increasing number of States parties to the Optional Protocol. It had conducted seven visits in 2014 and was planning to visit nine countries in 2015. However, it was still unlikely that the Subcommittee would be able to fulfil its visiting mandate as set out in the Optional Protocol. The treaty body strengthening process and General Assembly resolution 68/268 had stemmed the erosion of existing levels of provision without providing significant additional capacity for the Subcommittee. With 80 States parties, it was barely possible to undertake visits on a 10-year cycle, whereas other treaty bodies had reporting cycles of between 2 and 5 years, and the situation would only get worse as more States ratified the Optional Protocol. Visits had already been shortened in recent years and sometimes focused on a single issue, such as the establishment of national preventive mechanisms or the situation of a particular category of detainees. The 2015 visits had focused on migrants, as reflected in visits to Nauru and Italy in particular. The work of the Subcommittee should be of
15-18046
5/13
A/C.3/70/SR.19
the highest quality; however, increasing the number of country visits had resulted in a compromise on the length and thus the focus of those visits. The Subcommittee should be provided with sufficient staff, support and resources to be able to carry out its unique mandate.
30. Surprisingly, States parties claimed to be unaware of the visiting mandate and increasingly questioned the timing of visits or suggested that visits should not be undertaken. However, the Optional Protocol was designed to allow the Subcommittee to conduct unannounced visits at any time to any place within a State party where the Subcommittee believed that persons might be deprived of their liberty.
31. The Subcommittee was doing everything possible to fulfil its mandate to assist the national preventive mechanisms in their work. The number of such mechanisms established and functioning under the Optional Protocol system continued to rise, as did the quantity and quality of their work. However, there was very little provision for support for such work from the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, which meant that there were missed opportunities for providing the timely advice and technical assistance requested by States parties and national preventive mechanisms. Many mechanisms were themselves understaffed, lacked resources or had legal mandates falling short of what was required under the Optional Protocol. Several of those problems could be addressed through collaboration. It was encouraging to see positive responses from some States and the tangible improvements in prevention resulting from the work of the national preventive mechanisms.
32. Country visits were just the start of the process, and post-visit dialogue with States also needed to be enhanced. The Subcommittee worked to create a tailored roadmap for contact among State authorities, the Subcommittee and, where applicable, the national preventive mechanism to discuss progress with the consideration and implementation of recommendations. Sterile exchanges of formal documentation rarely achieved timely outcomes for those at risk of ill treatment, and the current processes did not reflect the urgency of the prevention work. The Subcommittee therefore sought to use the meeting sessions as a platform for ongoing preventive dialogue that could not be put on hold until the next formal visit; the Subcommittee would therefore welcome a discussion on additional ways in which dialogue could take place.
Since each visit generated its own follow-up process and dialogue, the Subcommittee did not have enough time to spend in discussion with States parties. Two plenary sessions of two weeks, rather than three one-week sessions, would be a desirable and costneutral solution.
33. The annual report contained an important section on pre-trial detention, as the Subcommittee was concerned about the continuing rise in forms of administrative detention. A systematic approach to that issue was essential, taking full account of the broader political, legal and socio -political context. The Optional Protocol Special Fund had been a great source of support to States seeking to implement recommendations after a visit and had supported many excellent projects since 2011. However, owing to a lack of support and donations, the future of the Fund was uncertain. He urged States to consider extending to the Fund the support that was desperately and urgently required. He welcomed the revised Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners (the Mandela Rules), but felt that too many of the rules remained aspirational rather than reflective of current reality. The Subcommittee looked forward to drawing and building on them in its work.
34. Ms. Probst-Lopez (Switzerland) said that States should ratify and fully implement the Optional Protocol as soon as possible. The adoption of the Mandela Rules opened new possibilities for better prevention efforts., Switzerland called on all States to evaluate their legislation and practices at the national level and bring them into line with the Rules. She asked how the Rules would influence the execution of the Subcommittee's mandate and what the most important aspects of implementation of the Rules were in terms of improving torture prevention mechanisms.
35. Ms. Flidrova (Czech Republic) said that the her country continued to contribute annually to the Special Fund established by the Optional Protocol, which was the best tool for torture prevention at the universal, regional and national levels. She asked whether the Subcommittee had taken any measures to foster cooperation with new States parties and their national preventive mechanisms.
36. Ms. Tschampa (Observer for the European Union) said that, while it was important to establish national preventive mechanisms, it was equally important to ensure the proper functioning of
6/13
15-18046
A/C.3/70/SR.19
mechanisms that had already been established. She asked the Chair to elaborate further on the difficulties faced by States parties with the functioning of their national preventive mechanisms and how such difficulties could be addressed. She also asked what type of inter-State cooperation could best contribute to the improvement of existing national preventive mechanisms.
37. Mr. Storrar (United Kingdom) expressed the hope that States would make full use of the tools available to meet their obligations, including by seeking an ongoing dialogue with the Subcommittee to discuss practical steps to address issues. He asked what more States parties and non-States parties could do to help overcome obstacles to the ratification and effective implementation of the Optional Protocol.
38. Ms. Mammadova (Azerbaijan) said that her country had provided the Subcommittee with unhindered access to places of detention during its visit to Azerbaijan from 24-26 April 2015. Azerbaijan looked forward to receiving the observations and recommendations of the Subcommittee, which would be duly considered by the relevant State agencies. In May 2016, members of the Working Group on Arbitrary Detention were expected to visit Azerbaijan. Azerbaijan was dedicated to constructive cooperation with the United Nations human rights mechanisms and remained open to dialogue.
39. Ms. Garfieldt Kofoed (Denmark) asked the Chair of the Subcommittee to elaborate on the San Jose Guidelines and to share new steps taken by the Subcommittee to combat intimidation and reprisals. She also asked what States parties could do to address more effectively the continued reports of intimidation and reprisals against individuals and groups, taking into consideration the Subcommittee's mandate and its country visits.
40. Mr. Sargsyan (Armenia) said that the international community should show zero tolerance to torture and inhuman treatment. As a party to the Convention, the Optional Protocol and many other international instruments, Armenia strongly believed that preventive systems should be improved at both the national and international levels. His delegation welcomed the Mandela Rules and hoped that States would assess their national legislation and practices accordingly. States must do their utmost to minimize
and prevent cases of torture, regardless of the citizenship status of captives and detainees.
41. Armenian society and the international community had been shocked by the death of Karen Petrosyan, an Armenian citizen who had accidentally crossed the border into Azerbaijan where he had been captured, publicly humiliated, tortured and killed by the Azerbaijani authorities. In 2014, a 77-year-old Armenian villager, Mamikon Khojoyan, had died as a result of injuries inflicted upon him during his detention in Azerbaijan. There had been a number of other recent cases involving the torture and cruel treatment of Armenian captives by the Azerbaijani authorities. The international community had called for an independent investigation of those deplorable acts, and he asked whether the Subcommittee had been able to examine those cases during its recent country visit to Azerbaijan.
42. Ms. Mammadova (Azerbaijan), responding to the comments made by the representative of Armenia, said that there was no evidence to support the assertion that Karen Petrosyan was a civilian. He was in fact a member of a subversive intelligence group of the Armenian armed forces and had been arrested for attempting to cross a State border illegally. His weapons and military clothing had been discovered near the site of his capture, and they included sufficient weapons to equip a subversive group of between 10 and 12 persons. RPG-7 and other types of portable weaponry used by Armenian subversive groups had been discovered in the area, and photographs on his mobile phone had proven that he was connected with, and had been trained by, an Armenian military facility.
43. As for the comments on inhuman treatment, Armenia had subjected Hasan Hasanov, an Azerbaijani citizen, to inhuman treatment and torture and then, after murdering him under unknown circumstances, had refused for months to return his body to his family in an effort to conceal the evidence of torture. Two Azerbaijani citizens were currently being held illegally in Armenia, after being captured within the universally recognized State border of Azerbaijan.
44. Mr. Evans (Chair of the Subcommittee on Prevention of Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment) said that some of the older and more outdated parts of the Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners had been set aside and more appropriate approaches had
15-18046
7/13
A/C.3/70/SR.19
been included, such as the new rules concerning investigations and the role of medical personnel in places of detention. The Subcommittee had been particularly pleased with the new sections on oversight and inspection, which called for both internal and independent external inspections of places of detention to which the rules applied. The Subcommittee urged all States to consider adopting the model of independence set out in the Optional Protocol in order to reflect and fulfil the revised Rules in that regard.
45. The Subcommittee was happy to provide advice to States on the most appropriate ways of establishing and working with national preventive mechanisms, and it had issued guidelines in that regard. It would be preferable to visit all new States parties, since any issues that arose were much more easily and efficiently addressed at the beginning of the process. Regrettably, the Subcommittee did not have the capacity to conduct so many visits. That weakness could be addressed very easily, which would transform States' experience of engaging with the system.
46. Preventive mechanisms were rather different from traditional inspection or complaints procedures; they required a certain amount of discussion, orientation and understanding to ensure that optimal measures were in place. Early conversations with States were a key factor, and sharing and networking with other States was also important. The Subcommittee could advise on the best use of the available resources. With regard to inter-State cooperation, peer-to-peer networks and exchanges between national preventive mechanisms were improving the quality of each State's dialogue with its own national prevention mechanism. It would be useful to convene from time to time a small forum with the national mechanism, the Subcommittee and the relevant authorities to discuss how the State was implementing the national preventive mechanism's recommendations. The rising number of States parties was both a joy and a challenge; the key issue was how to craft an ongoing dialogue.
47. The Subcommittee was looking forward to transmitting its report to Azerbaijan in the very near future. It was increasingly asking States to find ways of engaging in dialogue outside the formal exchange of documentation, in order to see how the Subcommittee's recommendations could be understood and implemented.
48. Article 15 of the Optional Protocol contained very strong language on sanctions or reprisals, which had provided the basis for the Subcommittee's own policy on reprisals and sanctions, which had been formulated prior to the San Jose Guidelines. The Subcommittee established a focal point for each country visit, conducted an in-depth risk assessment prior to the visit and continued to monitor that risk assessment as the visit unfolded. Any concerns that arose during each visit were discussed with the relevant authorities. If there were any concerns, the members might pay a return visit to a place of detention. Where there was a good and well functioning national preventive mechanism in a country, that mechanism could provide follow-up and continue to monitor the situation once the Subcommittee members had departed. It was often thought that reprisals came only from the authorities, but one major cause of concern was reprisals taken by powerful prisoners against others.
49. In response to the comments made by the representative of Armenia, he said that confidentiality was a hallmark of the Subcommittee's cooperation with States parties. He could not at present comment on the Subcommittee's visit to Azerbaijan, but a report would be issued in due course.
50. Mr. Mendez (Special Rapporteur on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment), introducing his interim report (A/70/303), said that his report focused on the extraterritorial application of the prohibition of torture because of the increasingly transnational nature of State actions. It was important to ensure that States abided by their fundamental human rights obligations when acting beyond their territorial boundaries, or when their actions or omissions caused injury outside those boundaries.
51. Regarding his country visit to Georgia on 12-19 March 2015, he said that the Government of Georgia had implemented a significant number of reforms to prevent and punish torture, the impact of which was both visible and quantifiable. However, Georgia must now ensure that such reforms were consolidated effectively and develop mechanisms to respond to the remaining challenges. He urged the Government to continue with its firm commitment to implementing the recommendations to improve detention conditions and eradicate torture entirely.
8/13
15-18046
A/C.3/70/SR.19
52. In relation to his country visit to Brazil in August 2015, he said that in most of the places visited, the detention conditions resulted in cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment. He had received reliable testimonies of torture and ill-treatment by the police during arrest and interrogation in the early stages of crime investigation. He urged the Government of Brazil to continue its efforts to combat torture and other ill-treatment at various levels of government and to redouble its efforts to ensure proper compliance throughout the country with guarantees against the ill treatment of its citizens.
53. With regard to his country visit to Ghana in October 2015, he said that there was much to be done with respect to conditions at detention centres, including the lack of medical attention and insufficient food supplies. However, he was encouraged by the projects and measures being implemented by the Government. He was concerned by the rather frequent cases of torture and ill-treatment during detention, arrest and interrogation. Georgia, Brazil and Ghana had all extended their full cooperation and had complied with their promises to provide unrestricted access to all places of detention.
54. The Governments of Mauritania and Morocco had extended invitations to conduct a country visit and a follow-up visit, respectively, in 2016. He also hoped to make a follow-up visit to Mexico in 2016. Unfortunately, the country visits with Bahrein, Thailand and the United States of America remained pending. His office was continuing to work with the Government of the United States to gain unrestricted access to both state and federal detention centres, which would enable the visit to take place.
55. Ms. Garfieldt Kofoed (Denmark) asked the Special Rapporteur to speak about the challenges he had experienced in connection with intimidation and reprisals against individuals and groups. She also asked how the Subcommittee could cooperate further with the other human rights treaty bodies to prevent intimidation and reprisals.
56. Ms. Wall (United States of America) said that her country had appeared before the Committee against Torture in 2014 and had clarified its views on a number of issues. The United States had recently joined the Group of Friends of the Convention against Torture Initiative, which served as a forum for developing preventive tools and policies that had a real impact on
the ground. Her Government looked forward to exploring ideas and policies with other participants in the Group and was particularly interested in discussing the use of police cameras; how to make security and justice programming more effective in preventing torture; increased support for civil society organizations advocating for torture prevention around the world; greater public outreach; more generous State contributions to the United Nations Voluntary Fund for Victims of Torture; ways to enhance oversight, especially within the first 48 hours of detention when most incidents of torture took place; education of security actors on the ineffectiveness of torture; and further research on the causes and indicators of torture and the best methods of prevention. She asked how States could protect members of particularly vulnerable groups from torture or other ill treatment, especially lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex individuals, and whether there were practical ways of promoting their protection.
57. Ms. Nescher (Liechtenstein) said that children were still detained in many countries and could be sentenced to life imprisonment without parole or even death. She asked the Special Rapporteur whether there had been any changes in countries that applied those practices and what had prompted those changes. She also asked him for his current perspective on the evolving international standard that considered the death penalty a violation of the prohibition of torture and cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment or punishment, as originally discussed in the 2012 interim report of the Special Rapporteur on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment (A/67/279).
58. Mr. Bai (Fiji) said that his country had recently committed to ratifying the Convention. The definition of torture in the Constitution of Fiji was even broader than in article 1 of the Convention. He asked the Special Rapporteur to elaborate on the domestic consequences of ratification and the scope of State obligations under the Convention. He also asked the Special Rapporteur for his interpretation of the extraterritorial applicability of obligations under the Convention. His Government had expressed concern in other forums that some States attempted to avoid those obligations by arranging for detention and interrogation to take place in foreign jurisdictions. It should be possible to exercise extraterritorial jurisdiction in the case of torture. Domestic courts
15-18046
9/13
A/C.3/70/SR.19
should have jurisdiction when the perpetrator was a citizen, resident or registered company of the country in question, so that those who were complicit in acts of torture could be tried in the State where the torture had occurred or in the State in which they resided. Such an approach had particular relevance to the treatment of asylum seekers and refugees.
59. Courts in Fiji held a trial within a trial to determine whether the prosecution had proven beyond a reasonable doubt that there had been no act of assault or other conduct that had usurped the free will of the person being interrogated. Fiji was also implementing a system of audio and video recording of all police confessions, and the police commissioner had taken part in a recent meeting in Costa Rica organized by the Association for the Prevention of Torture. He asked the Special Rapporteur to comment on the importance of the exclusionary rule of evidence in a trial.
60. Ms. Tschampa (Observer for the European Union) said that, in his report, the Special Rapporteur had reminded States that no jurisdictional reference found in the Convention against Torture could be read to restrict or limit States' obligations to respect the rights of all individuals to be free from torture and ill treatment. The Special Rapporteur had also referred to the exclusionary rule contained in article 15 of the Convention, which mandated that States not invoke as evidence in any proceedings statements obtained as a result of torture, and had extended that rule to statements obtained under all forms of ill treatment. She asked him to elaborate on the connection between the extraterritorial application of the provision against torture and the exclusionary rule. She also asked the Special Rapporteur to suggest initiatives that could be led by his office or by States to strengthen the acknowledgment of the extraterritorial application of the prohibition against torture and ill treatment and the exclusionary rule. Finally, she requested an update on the status of unanswered requests for country visits.
61. Ms. Kupradze (Georgia), referring to the Special Rapporteur's visit to her country in March 2015, said that her Government recognized that there was still room for improvement in some areas and would give due consideration to the observations and recommendations of the Special Rapporteur. Since his visit, the approval of the new 2015 -2016 action plan against torture had created a more ambitious and comprehensive agenda to address existing gaps.
62. Her delegation was deeply concerned that the Special Rapporteur had been blocked by the occupying regime from entering Georgia's occupied regions of Abkhazia and South Ossetia, where there had been reports of extremely grave conditions in penitentiary facilities. Her Government was deprived of the opportunity to exercise its right to address the humanitarian problems of the people residing in those areas, and virtually no human rights monitoring mechanisms were allowed inside the occupied regions. She asked the Special Rapporteur for his reaction to being denied access to those regions and what measures he would envision to address the situation.
63. Ms. Probst-Lopez (Switzerland) said that the reminder of the extraterritorial applicability of the absolute prohibition of torture and other forms of ill treatment was well-timed given the many operations undertaken by States beyond their borders, especially in relation to migration and counter-terrorism. Such operations must be conducted with full respect for human rights. Her Government joined the Special Rapporteur in calling for an end to impunity for State agents who committed acts of torture outside the State's territory and for independent monitoring of detention sites located in other States. The Human Rights Council had recently adopted a resolution on the link between the death penalty and the absolute prohibition of torture and other ill treatment. She asked the Special Rapporteur to share his views on the obligations of non-abolitionist States concerning the extraterritorial application of the prohibition of torture, including the prohibition of refoulement.
64. Mr. Torbergsen (Norway) said that his delegation was concerned by the increasing use of reprisals against individuals cooperating with United Nations bodies. Member States must urgently address the fact that the human rights pillar of the United Nations was severely underfunded. It was unacceptable that the core bodies of the international human rights system were prevented from fulfilling their mandates because of financial concerns.
65. Torture was the most serious violation of the right to personal integrity and dignity, and it could never be justified. Its continued widespread use was a cause of great concern and called for political leadership. There was a need to address the important underlying structural reasons for the use of torture and ill treatment, such as impunity, a lack of respect for legal safeguards and a malfunctioning administration of
10/13
15-18046
A/C.3/70/SR.19
justice. The prohibition of torture and other ill treatment could not be territorially limited. When States brought a person into their jurisdiction by exercising control or authority over an area, place, individual or transaction, they were bound by their fundamental obligation not to engage in or contribute to acts of torture and other ill treatment. He asked the Special Rapporteur to elaborate further on the notion of de jure or de facto control.
66. Mr. Storrar (United Kingdom) said that his Government remained committed to working alongside its partners to build a culture of torture prevention and to end impunity. In September 2015, the United Kingdom, in collaboration with the University of Essex, had launched a new edition of the Torture Reporting Handbook, which was freely available to all human rights defenders and national human rights institutions. The reporting of torture was vital. Civil society groups around the world made it clear that torture was still an everyday reality in dozens of countries, despite the fact that it was banned by the Convention against Torture, and that the pathway to a culture of torture prevention was clearly laid out in the Optional Protocol. Obstacles to ratification and the ongoing lack of political will to end torture must be overcome. The United Kingdom stood ready to support those States that wished to strengthen national protection mechanisms to prevent torture.
67. Mr. Duorak (Czech Republic) asked the Special Rapporteur for an update on his communications with the Government of Bahrain, especially concerning the postponed visit to that country.
68. Ms. Telles Ribeiro (Brazil) said that her delegation was concerned by the Special Rapporteur's statement that some States attempted to undermine the absolute legal prohibition of torture and other ill treatment by evading or limiting responsibility for extraterritorial acts. There could be no vacuum of human rights protection due to inappropriate or unwarranted limits on territorial jurisdiction. In relation to the current refugee crisis, Brazil highlighted the need for States to respect the non-refoulement principle and not expose individuals to high risks of torture or other ill treatment by expulsion, extradition or refoulement to another State. She asked the Special Rapporteur for his opinion on how the conclusions and recommendations of his report might contribute to further advancing the extraterritorial applicability of human rights.
69. Ms. Anichina (Russian Federation) said that the Russian Federation was concerned by the extraterritorial application of law by certain countries, which was often accompanied by torture and inhuman treatment. Her delegation would like the Special Rapporteur to pay more attention to addressing that problem and to make more detailed comments on how he was doing so. She drew the attention of the Special Rapporteur to cases of the use of torture in armed conflicts, in particular in the context of investigations and prosecutions.
70. Ms. Mammadova (Azerbaijan) said that extraterritorial illegal detention was a matter of great concern and was particularly relevant in the context of foreign occupation, when an occupying state exercised de facto control over illegally occupied territories. Two Azerbaijani civilians had been illegally detained in Armenia for more than a year. They had been taken hostage while visiting the graves of their parents in the occupied Kalbajar region of Azerbaijan and had been subjected to torture in the course of a fabricated criminal case. The hostages had been captured within the internationally recognized borders of Azerbaijan, where there was no restriction or prohibition of the free movement of Azerbaijani citizens, except under conditions specified by Azerbaijani law. The civilians could not be prosecuted under Armenia's laws because they had been detained within the internationally recognized borders of Azerbaijan, which was not under the jurisdiction of Armenia's laws. Nevertheless, the so-called trial had been concluded in December 2014, and the two Azerbaijanis had received a life sentence and a 22-year sentence. Her Government was concerned about their fate and their health and would appreciate the cooperation of all international human rights advocates in ascertaining the fate of its citizens and in calling for their safe return to Azerbaijan.
71. Mr. Sargsyan (Armenia) said that his delegation rejected all the allegations made against Armenia and Nagorno-Karabakh by the delegation of Azerbaijan, which was once again attempting to mislead Member States and divert the focus of the interactive dialogue with its State propaganda. The comments made by the delegation of Azerbaijan had no legal or factual merit. The so-called occupied territories were actually the Republic of Nagorno-Karabakh, which was a free and independent State. The individuals who had been detained by the authorities of Nagorno-Karabakh had been found guilty of killing a teenager of Armenian
15-18046
11/13
A/C.3/70/SR.19
descent in Nagorno-Karabakh. The delegation of Azerbaijan had purposely avoided mentioning the reason for their detention.
72. Ms. Mammadova (Azerbaijan) said that Nagorno-Karabakh had been recognized as an integral part of Azerbaijan in four Security Council resolutions, in which the aggression and occupation of the territories of the Republic of Azerbaijan by Armenia was also recognized. The so-called independent State of Nagorno-Karabakh was a puppet regime that had been set up by Armenia in the occupied territories of Azerbaijan and was not recognized as a State under international law by any States or international organizations, including Armenia, and its laws could not therefore be considered legally valid. The Azerbaijanis had been charged with illegally crossing the State border, although they had still been within the internationally recognized territory of Azerbaijan, where only Azerbaijan had jurisdiction.
73. Mr. Mendez (Special Rapporteur on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment) said that he encouraged delegations to incorporate a reference to the extraterritorial application of the prohibition of torture into the resolution on torture that would be considered during the current session. With regard to reprisals and intimidation, his office did not have the capacity to follow up on the treatment of all the individuals who contacted him and it was therefore possible that such acts were under-reported. However, during the negotiations prior to a country visit, his office insisted on using the terms of reference approved by the Human Rights Council, which included very specific guarantees against reprisals.
74. It was important for countries to collaborate on the important obligation to investigate, prosecute and punish every single act of torture, which was a key provision of the Convention and of customary international law. His office had intervened with States in several cases to protect vulnerable persons, including lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex persons, from torture and ill treatment in various contexts, including in detention and at health care facilities. He hoped to examine more specific ways to offer protection in his next thematic report, which would focus on gender and torture, and he asked delegations for suggestions on how to improve the protection of members of vulnerable groups.
75. There were still some countries that imposed sentences of life imprisonment and the death penalty on criminal defendants who committed crimes when they were under the age of 18 years. He believed, however, that the Convention on the Rights of the Child had changed the legal landscape in that regard. Anyone under the age of 18 years was considered a child for the purposes of international law and should be treated as such if he or she committed a crime. Customary law had evolved against the imposition of the death penalty and life sentences on people who had committed crimes as children. As stated in his interim report from 2012, States that chose to retain the death penalty had the obligation to ensure that the method of execution and the waiting period on death row did not violate the prohibition on cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment.
76. He commended Fiji on its application of the exclusionary rule in a trial within a trial to determine whether a confession or a statement had been obtained under any form of coercion. As stated in his report from 2014, the good-faith application of the exclusionary rule not only excluded testimonies proven to have been obtained under torture, but also all testimonies or declarations that were obtained without constitutional and procedural guarantees against torture. In his report he had noted the tendency of States to use information or intelligence obtained under torture for purposes other than prosecution or in proceedings, which did not violate the letter of the Convention. However, the good-faith interpretation of the relevant provisions should exclude any use of intelligence obtained under torture, including for the determination of asylum or refugee status, or for extradition.
77. A full list of countries that had not responded to requests to visit from the Special Rapporteur or his predecessors would be provided at a later date. He had made requests to visit the two regions of Georgia that were under foreign occupation; one request had been denied and the other had received no response. The Special Rapporteur could only visit countries or regions when invited to do so, and he had no recourse if his requests were denied. He had not had any further contact with Bahrain, which had cancelled one of his visits at the last minute and had cancelled a second visit while publicly stating that the Special Rapporteur was responsible for the cancellation. He had met with
12/13
15-18046
A/C.3/70/SR.19
the foreign minister of Bahrain in Geneva in 2014, but had not been successful in rescheduling a visit.
78. Not every instance of ill treatment was the responsibility of the State whose agent had committed it. If an agent of a State had effective control over whether or not torture occurred, even if that agent was not directly involved in the torture, the State and the State agent were responsible for preventing it from happening and should be held accountable for any failure. That was the good-faith interpretation of the obligation.
79. The determination of non-refoulement for the Convention against Torture was different from the determination of refugee status under the Convention relating to the Status of Refugees. It was more restrictive, in the sense that it provided protection solely from torture and ill treatment and not from persecution. It was also more absolute, because even persons who did not qualify as refugees were entitled to protection from being sent to a place where they could be tortured. States should make separate determinations for that reason, and ensure that the person to be repatriated, expelled or deported had a fair opportunity to state a claim as to why he or she should not be sent back to a place where he or she could be persecuted.
80. There were too many ways in which States could escape their obligations under the Convention, including by denying that the torture had occurred in the first place. Inspection and investigation were essential to ensuring that instances of torture were prosecuted. He was unable to comment on the cases mentioned at the present meeting, but he would take every opportunity to look into any matter that came within his mandate, and he would be happy to assist in all cases to ensure that the Convention was upheld.
The meeting rose at 1.00 p.m.
15-18046
13/13