United Nations
A/C.3/70/SR.57
General Assembly
Seventieth session
Official Records
Distr.: General 26 July 2016
Original: English
Third Committee
Summary record of the 57th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Monday, 13 June 2016, at 12.05 p.m.
Chair: Mr. Hilale (Morocco)
Contents
Agenda item 5: Election of the officers of the Main Committees
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Control Unit (srcorrections@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
15-20841 (E)
III III 11IIllllllllllllllllllll
Please recycle
A/C.3/70/SR.57
The meeting was called to order at 12.05 p.m.
Agenda item 5: Election of the officers of the Main Committees
1. The Chair, on behalf of the members of the Committee, expressed condolences to the families of the victims, the American people and the Government of the United States in connection with the recent terrorist attack in Florida.
2. In accordance with rule 99 (a) of the rules of procedure, the meeting had been convened for the purpose of electing the Chair and other members of the Bureau of the Committee for the seventy -first session of the General Assembly.
3. The nomination of Ms. Mej^a Velez (Colombia) for the office of Chair had been endorsed by the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States. In the absence of further nominations, and in accordance with rule 103 of the rules of procedure, he would take it that the Committee wished to elect Ms. Mej^a Velez (Colombia) Chair.
4. Ms. Mej^a Velez (Colombia) was elected Chair by acclamation.
5. Ms. Mejia Velez (Colombia) expressed condolences to the families of the victims of the terrible acts of violence perpetrated in Florida.
6. The upcoming year would be especially significant as the Committee will begin to implement the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and she would make every effort to advance the goals of the Agenda.
7. The Chair said that the nominations of Mr. Eriza (Indonesia), Ms. W^grzynowska (Poland) and Mr. Glossner (Germany) for the three offices of Vice-Chair had been endorsed by the Group of Asia-Pacific States, the Group of Eastern European States and the Group of Western European and Other States, respectively.
8. Mr. Eriza (Indonesia), Ms. Wfgrzynowska (Poland) and Mr. Glossner (Germany) were elected Vice-Chairs by acclamation.
9. The Chair said that the nomination of Ms. Mballa Eyenga (Cameroon) for the office of Rapporteur had been endorsed by the Group of African States.
10. Ms. Mballa Eyenga (Cameroon) was elected Rapporteur by acclamation.
The meeting rose at 12.15 p.m.
2/2
15-20841