United Nations
A/C.3/69/SR.17
General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
Official Records
Distr.: General 20 January 2015
Original: English
Third Committee
Summary record of the 17th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Friday, 17 October 2014, at 1 p.m.
Chair: Ms. Nilsson (Vice-Chair) (Sweden)
Contents
Agenda item 64: Promotion and protection of the rights of children (continued)
(a) Promotion and protection of the rights of children (continued)
(b) Follow-up to the outcome of the special session on children (continued)
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Control Unit (srcorrections@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-62886 (E)
in i iiiiii rnwmwv
Please recycle
A/C.3/69/SR.17
The meeting was called to order at 1 p.m.
Agenda item 64: Promotion and protection of the rights of children (continued)
(a) Promotion and protection of the rights of children (continued) (A/69/165, A/69/166, A/69/212, A/69/260, A/69/262, A/69/264 and A/69/394-S/2014/684)
(b) Follow-up to the outcome of the special session on children (continued) (A/69/258)
1. Ms. Franceschi (Panama) said that a country's true wealth was found in its people, beginning with its children and youth, whose social, emotional and cognitive development determined the overall development of the nation. Despite solid economic and development indicators, inequality in Panama continued to affect many children and adolescents, particularly in rural areas and indigenous communities, with 18.9 per cent of children under the age of 5 living in extreme poverty. Other problems disproportionately affecting youth living in poverty included teenage pregnancies, school dropouts, child labour, child abuse and obstacles to exercising their rights to identity and to health.
2. Her Government had founded a national secretariat responsible for formulating and implementing policies aimed at protecting the rights of children, adolescents and families. The secretariat had launched several programmes, including ones that gave personalized care to children in social risk situations, fostered positive behaviour among at-risk adolescents through recreation, strengthened family relations and sought to eradicate child labour. Her Government had also been working with the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) to integrate support for families into public policies and establish a comprehensive national plan for early childhood and youth.
3. Mr. Emvula (Namibia) said that Namibia had signed the Convention on the Rights of the Child in 1990, and had enacted legislation to incorporate provisions of the Convention into national law. In 2008, the African Child Policy Forum had ranked Namibia as the second most child-friendly country on the continent. The current national development plan contained important provisions for children, including on issues such as early childhood development and support for orphans and other vulnerable children.
Many children in Namibia found themselves carrying out the huge responsibility of heading households and caring for other children owing to the effects of HIV/AIDS, economic migration and other social factors. Namibia therefore sought to establish policies that strengthened and supported families. For example, it had introduced free primary education and school meal programmes, as well as mobile schools, which were meant to keep the children of nomadic communities in school without disrupting their way of life.
4. Ms. Ren Xiaoxia (China) said that the rights of children faced myriad challenges, ranging from war to poverty to disease. Those challenges were especially affecting children with disabilities and those belonging to ethnic minorities. Millions of children were still subjected to child labour, mistreatment, sexual abuse and exploitation, neglect and various forms of violence. Poverty endangered children's physical and mental health, as well as their education and development.
5. The rapid development of information and communication technologies had changed the lives of millions of people, including vulnerable children, who benefitted from easier access to information. However, the Internet had brought new challenges to child protection, including child cyber pornography, cyber addiction and the risk of children being exposed to harmful material. In that regard, her delegation had taken note of the recent discussion of those issues by the Committee on the Rights of the Child and the concerns raised by the Special Rapporteur on the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography.
6. National Governments bore the primary responsibility for the protection of children's rights and in that regard must take comprehensive legislative, administrative and judicial measures. At the same time, the international community should cooperate to eliminate the root causes of violations of children's rights, including conflict and poverty. Her Government was implementing a national plan to support the development of children and strove to improve legislation in that area, including through the amendment of the criminal code to include crimes against minors. There had also been national campaigns to raise awareness of children's rights in communities and schools.
2/9
14-62886
A/C.3/69/SR.17
7. Mr. Ghaebi (Islamic Republic of Iran) said that the recent accession of the State of Palestine to the Convention on the Rights of the Child was a welcome development. His Government was fully committed to ensuring that children were protected from negligence and exploitation. At the national level, legislation had been developed to promote and protect their rights, in compliance with internationally accepted standards and national regulations. In addition, juvenile arbitration councils had been established to protect the rights of children within the court system, and a working group was studying ways to prevent juveniles from being subjected to capital punishment. An academic conference on the role of religious leaders in the prevention of violence against children had been held in Tehran in 2013.
8. Despite progress made at the national and international levels, children were being recruited to participate in armed conflicts and were still being killed and maimed, including during attacks on schools and hospitals. More recently, they had been targeted by terrorist groups. He called for the post-2015 development agenda to address the needs of children and to protect their rights.
9. Ms. Mansour (Observer for the State of Palestine) said that the children of Gaza had borne the brunt of the tragic effects of the recent attacks on Palestine by the Israeli occupying Power. In 50 days, over 500 Palestinian children had been killed and more than 3,100 had been wounded, 1,000 of those so seriously that they would suffer permanent disability. According to United Nations estimates, 373,000 children in Gaza urgently needed specialized psychosocial support as a result of the trauma they had endured, with many having been orphaned or made homeless. In addition, more than half a million children had been unable to begin the new school year owing to the destruction of schools and homes. Palestinian children also suffered from the illegal blockade that had been imposed by the occupying Power on Gaza for eight years, which was a gross form of collective punishment. Her delegation called on the occupying Power to abide by international law and lift the blockade in order to give the children of Gaza the chance to develop and thrive.
10. The Palestinian leadership would take actions to ensure that Israel was held accountable for its crimes. Israel claimed to be the region's only democracy, yet it was also the only State that systematically prosecuted
children in military courts, often arresting and detaining them without trial. In detention, they were not afforded legal rights and were subject to torture and other forms of abuse.
11. Palestine had worked within the constraints imposed by the decades-long occupation to protect children. In that regard, the State of Palestine had acceded to the Convention on the Rights of the Child and its Optional Protocol on the involvement of children in armed conflict. That was a significant step towards achieving Palestine's full participation as a member of the international community and thus offering its children the utmost protection under international law. She thanked the United Nations agencies working on the ground in Gaza and called on the international community to end the impunity of Israel and provide the assistance and protection needed by Palestinian children.
12. Ms. Dagher (Lebanon) said that her Government had enacted legislation concerning various aspects of children's lives, including education, work, social protection, health and disability. Entities established to promote and protect child rights included a supreme council on childhood and a national commission to combat child labour; there were also mechanisms in place to receive complaints from child victims of sexual violence and other rights violations. The rights of the child were being integrated into academic curricula, and a university-level degree on the subject had been introduced. Steps had been taken to protect juvenile delinquents and at-risk youth, including the establishment of separate holding places for minors in detention centres. In coordination with regional and international organizations and civil society, efforts continued to bring domestic legislation in line with Lebanon's obligations, especially in respect of labour laws, penal law and juvenile justice. Lebanon regarded education as a tool to empower children and raise their awareness of their rights. Compulsory education served to protect children, particularly girls, from violence and prepare them to become citizens. It also equipped girls to fulfil their natural role in nurturing future generations. Tangible progress had been achieved in lowering dropout rates, including in rural areas, with primary school enrolment reaching 99 per cent.
13. The humanitarian crisis unfolding on Lebanese soil was endangering the development gains that had been made over the decades. Her Government appealed to the international community to support Lebanon in
14-62886
3/9
A/C.3/69/SR.17
its voluntary role as host to more than a million and a half refugees, the majority of whom were children, in order to enable it to meet its obligations in the area of human rights and sustainable development.
14. Mr. Maope (Lesotho) said that creating a safe environment for children was one of the primary responsibilities of the United Nations. It was disheartening that, despite the near-universal ratification of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, violence continued to affect children's development and well-being.
15. As a State party to the Convention, Lesotho continued to strengthen relevant national laws and policies. In an effort to address violence against children, his Government had launched a national child helpline in 2008. It had also passed a child protection and welfare act in 2011 to address the marked increase in reports of child abuse. His Government had also made significant progress towards universal primary education and, despite the challenge of sustaining the increased investment required, it would soon target secondary education. Lesotho's cooperation with UNICEF focused on the effects of the HIV/AIDS pandemic, which had given rise to a sharp increase in the number of orphans and households headed by children. The new strategic plan for the elimination of mother-to-child transmission of HIV included a community mobilization programme through which 81 per cent of pregnant women living with HIV had received transmission-blocking treatment in 2011, and over 60 per cent of HIV-positive children had had access to treatment.
16. Ms. Abdullah (Yemen) said that Yemen had been among the first countries to accede to the Convention on the Rights of the Child and was also a party to its optional protocols. In addition, it had endorsed the Principles and Guidelines on Children Associated with Armed Forces or Armed Groups. Legislation had been enacted in line with the State's international obligations, including a law prohibiting the recruitment of children under 18 by the military or security forces. The outcome of the National Dialogue Conference had stipulated, inter alia, that all measures concerning children should take their best interests into consideration. It also conferred upon children the right to an appropriate name, a nationality, basic care and nourishment, and religious, emotional and cognitive development. Furthermore, the Government had committed to protecting children from violence, sexual
exploitation, illegal labour, and discrimination on the basis of their parents' or guardians' status, activities or beliefs, and had also pledged to care for orphaned children and children with disabilities.
17. Institutional mechanisms established to promote child rights included a supreme council on motherhood and childhood, a technical commission to combat trafficking in children and a national child protection network. In cooperation with UNICEF and civil society organizations, Yemen was preparing to launch a national observatory on the rights of the child and implement a plan of action to demobilize children in the armed forces and reintegrate them into society.
18. Despite difficult circumstances, Yemen had achieved a number of successes in advancing child rights. Polio had been eradicated in 2008, and child vaccination campaigns were conducted periodically. National strategies were being developed to protect vulnerable children and to combat child trafficking. In closing, her Government reaffirmed its commitment to promoting child rights and expressed appreciation for the support provided by international partners, chief among them UNICEF.
19. Mr. Kihurani (Kenya) said that despite the achievements made globally since 2000 in reducing child mortality and malnutrition and increasing access to education, drinking water and sanitation, there remained an equity gap between children in different parts of the world which must be addressed in a forceful and transparent manner. As the twenty-fifth anniversary of the Convention on the Rights of the Child approached and work on the post-2015 development agenda continued, there should be a focus on ensuring that children were able not only to survive, but to thrive. His delegation was proud to have co-chaired the Open Working Group on Sustainable Development Goals, which had sought to address child-related issues in 8 of the 17 goals. However, humanitarian crises were threatening to undo years of hard work by crippling economic and social activities. In particular, the recent outbreak of the Ebola virus in West Africa had exacted a disastrous toll, with a potentially devastating impact on children's well-being. In East Africa, crises and conflicts had led to an influx of hundreds of thousands of refugees in Kenya, nearly half of whom were children. Despite the burden this had placed on Kenya's social services, his Government remained committed to ensuring the rights and welfare of children.
4/9
14-62886
A/C.3/69/SR.17
20. Education was vital for the full realization of an individual's potential and was central to a country's social and economic development. Cultural barriers to educating girls had been reduced in Kenya, and differences between boys' and girls' enrolment had declined considerably. Various policies, including the integration of early childhood development into basic education, were continuing to improve the net enrolment rates. Consequently, Kenya was expected to achieve the Millennium Development Goal on universal primary education by 2015. In addition, over the next three years, the Government would be implementing a programme to install computer labs in primary schools.
21. The impacts of poverty and HIV/AIDS had led to an increase in the number of orphaned children, which had led his Government, together with partners, to establish a cash transfer programme for orphans and vulnerable children. As of March 2012, the programme had assisted over 130,000 households and had had a significant impact on reducing poverty and increasing school enrolment. Kenya was also one of the 22 countries of priority listed under the Global Plan Towards the Elimination of New HIV Infections among Children by 2015 and Keeping Their Mothers Alive. The introduction of free maternal health care services had resulted in a ten per cent increase in hospital deliveries; mothers and their spouses were also offered HIV testing and counselling.
22. Child abuse remained a problem in the most modern of cities as well as the most traditional of rural communities, and children with disabilities were three to four times more likely to be victims of violence. His Government had launched a survey on violence against children and was developing and executing a comprehensive plan which included helplines, shelters and rescue homes, rehabilitation and resettlement services, and gender desks in police stations.
23. The success of the post-2015 development agenda would require the empowerment of children and communities to demand results, which could only be achieved through further investment in programmes that benefitted children, as well as capacity -building to strengthen social protection for children.
24. Mr. Canay (Turkey) said that his Government had taken significant steps over the past decade to improve the legal and institutional framework for the promotion and protection of children's rights. Turkey
was a party to major international and regional conventions and was in the process of ratifying the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on a communications procedure. His Government had launched several projects to respond to the concerns of children; in cooperation with international partners, it was focusing on child protection, juvenile justice systems and issues involving children with disabilities. A committee on monitoring and evaluating children's rights had been established, an ombudsperson for women and children had been appointed, and monitoring centres had been established in several provinces to prevent and respond to cases of child abuse.
25. His Government placed special emphasis on the education of the girl child. Many campaigns launched in the past decade to close the gender gap in education had resulted in grassroots initiatives that provided equal education opportunities to many disadvantaged girls. His delegation had been one of the main sponsors of General Assembly resolution 66/170 on the International Day of the Girl Child, in which interest was increasing.
26. His delegation categorically denied the allegations made by the representative of the Syrian Arab Republic against Turkey at the 15 th meeting of the Third Committee (A/C.3/69/SR.15). According to the Global Appeal 2014-2015 report of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), the response of the Turkish authorities to the influx of Syrian refugees in his country had been “exemplary”. Turkey had provided safe refuge for over 1.5 million Syrians, giving children fleeing the brutal conflict the possibility of building a future. To date, in Turkey, 33,000 children had been born to refugees at medical facilities and 68,000 refugee children were enrolled in schools. His Government had also ensured that humanitarian assistance reached millions in need within the Syrian Arab Republic.
27. Mr. Deme (Burkina Faso) said that his Government attached great importance to the rights of the child, particularly in view of the fact that more than half of country's population was under the age of 18. It had ratified international and regional legal instruments, created a national children's rights observatory, established juvenile courts and developed child-focused health, education and social protection policies. School enrolment rates had improved, particularly among girls, and children's rights were
14-62886
5/9
A/C.3/69/SR.17
part of school curricula. Challenges to the implementation of the national children's rights policy included limited dissemination of the relevant legislation and regulations, insufficient financial resources and weak coordination between stakeholders. UNICEF had visited the country in 2014, which had provided a welcome opportunity to reassess the ways it provided support to the Government.
28. His Government was concerned that conflict, rights violations linked to information and communication technology, trafficking and violence continued to affect a large number of children around the world. Many were unable to attend school because they were being used as soldiers or had been displaced by conflict. Member States had a collective responsibility to maintain peace and allocate the necessary resources to national and international bodies responsible for the promotion and protection of children's rights. The post-2015 development agenda should include measures to improve the education, health, rights and well-being of children.
29. Ms. Bahar (Indonesia) said that concerted, multisectoral action, adequate resources and strong political will were required to offer all children the opportunity to thrive. In Indonesia, children's security and wellbeing were protected under the Constitution. The Government had ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child and two of its optional protocols and had participated in a dialogue with the Committee on the Rights of the Child in June 2014. The mandate of the Ministry of Women's Empowerment and Children Protection had been expanded in 2009 to include child protection and child development issues. The country also had an independent child protection commission. The Government was taking a grassroots approach to improving access to and the quality of basic health care. Measures to improve access to education included scholarships and conditional cash transfers for poor families.
30. A national action plan on the prevention and eradication of violence against children had been adopted in 2010 and legislative measures had been taken to combat sexual violence against children, including an increase in the maximum sentence. A new law emphasizing diversion and restorative justice for minors had been passed in July 2014. The Ministry of Health had banned female genital mutilation and would continue to raise awareness around the harmful effects of the practice on women's reproductive health. Steps
had also been taken to reduce the number of early marriages. Children's rights to be heard and to participate in decision-making processes had been expanded through various platforms, and children had been involved in development planning at the local and provincial levels.
31. In the light of the work that remained to be done, her delegation welcomed the ambitious targets on reducing inequality, ending violence against children and eradicating poverty set out by the Open Working Group on Sustainable Development Goals in its report.
32. Mr. Bale (Congo) said that the awarding of the Nobel Peace Prize to Ms. Malala Yousafzai , a 16-yearold Pakistani girl, had given a special significance to the observance of the International Day of the Girl Child that year.
33. The situation of children in Congo had improved significantly since the Government had ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child in 1993; it was currently in the process of ratifying the 2014 Optional Protocol to the Convention on a communications procedure. At the national level, the Government had promulgated a number of laws with a view to creating a legal framework for providing children with greater protection. Enrolment in primary education had increased to over 90 per cent following the abolition of examination fees in 2012. Making education the national theme of the 2014 International Day of the Girl Child had created an opportunity for discussion on the challenges that remained with regard to girls' access to education and retention in school.
34. Thanks to various Government efforts, most vulnerable children were now being supported through specialized institutions, shelters and orphanages run by local and international non-governmental organizations (NGOs) or religious groups. An NGO-led programme financed by the European Union had been providing training in child protection at the local level since April 2014. With the support of the United Nations, the Congo hosted and cared for children displaced by violence in neighbouring countries. His Government had also implemented a series of measures to reduce child mortality rates, including the provision of free antimalarial drugs and insecticide-treated mosquito nets for children and pregnant women; it was also working to prevent mother-to-child transmission of HIV at no cost to the patient. A road map for reducing maternal mortality rates had also been developed.
6/9
14-62886
A/C.3/69/SR.17
35. Ms. Lyengi (United Republic of Tanzania) said that her country had ratified the Convention, its optional protocols and the African Charter on the Rights and Welfare of the Child. It had consolidated and enhanced the legal framework for protecting children, notably by providing better protection for their fundamental rights; ensuring they were treated fairly by the judicial system; and defining processes to ensure protection of the rights of children without families, including international adoption. Primary school enrolment was near universal for both boys and girls and the secondary school enrolment rates had also improved. Under-five and infant mortality rates had been significantly reduced as a result of the intensification of efforts to provide medicines and nutritional supplements.
36. While the findings of the 2009 UNICEF Tanzania Violence against Children Study were troubling, they had provided an opportunity for breaking the silence on that subject and would be useful to policymakers and practitioners alike. The Government had already taken action by translating the 2009 National Child Act into Kiswahili and disseminating it to communities, establishing a child helpline, setting up a high-level task force on street children and introducing gender desks at police stations. Corporal punishment in schools would be banned as part of the legislative reform that would follow the adoption of the new Constitution. Around 2.5 million children had benefited from the adoption of a national action plan to provide housing, education and health care for vulnerable children, including street children, child labourers, children with disabilities and survivors of sexual exploitation.
37. Her Government was concerned by the increased use and targeting of children in conflict situations and called for an end to the impunity of those responsible. She also called on Member States and regional organizations to support the United Nations “Children, Not Soldiers” campaign, which aimed to end the recruitment and use of children by national security forces by 2016. While her delegation recognized that Governments bore the primary responsibility for the well-being of their people, it noted the important role played by the international community in ensuring that the agreed universal standards were achieved.
38. Mr. Hahn Choonghee (Republic of Korea) said that he hoped that the awarding of the Nobel Peace Prize to Ms. Malala Yousafzai and Mr. Kailash
Satyarthi would help further their efforts in the areas of education and children's rights. It was deplorable that 25 years after the adoption of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, thousands of children were serving as soldiers, 5.5 million had been trafficked for forced labour or sexual slavery, 15 million girls had had to abandon school owing to forced early marriage and 130 million children struggled with basic literacy and numeracy skills, despite attending school.
39. With the support of international organizations such as UNICEF, education had empowered generations of Korean people and had brought economic growth and social development to their country. His Government was committed to repaying the international community for that assistance by supporting UNICEF initiatives; its contributions to the Fund had exceeded $110 million in 2013. The Republic of Korea also endeavoured to share the lessons of its successes with developing countries, particularly through programmes supporting quality basic education. The third World Education Forum, to be held in Seoul in 2015, would serve as an opportunity to reaffirm his Government's commitment to incorporating education into the post-2015 global development agenda. Global citizenship education at the centre of the new education agenda; issues such as human rights, the rule of law and democracy must complement academic education in order to build a peaceful, tolerant and sustainable global village.
40. His Government offered medical subsidies and family welfare support services to enable children with disabilities to enjoy all of their human rights. National legislation also provided for compulsory education and universal health insurance for children with disabilities. A law had also been passed to increase penalties for child abuse.
41. Mr. Dotta (Uruguay), calling for universal ratification and implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and its optional protocols, said that the promotion and protection of human rights, particularly those of vulnerable groups such as children, was a key element of Uruguay's domestic and foreign policy. In just over a decade, his Government had drastically reduced the number of children living in poverty by making children's issues a cross-cutting element of State activities.
42. Standards and measures to bring about inter-institutional coordination as well as cooperation
14-62886
7/9
A/C.3/69/SR.17
between States and civil society were needed to address the sexual exploitation of vulnerable children. His Government was also concerned by the recruitment of children by States and armed groups and the use of schools and hospitals for military purposes, which violated children's fundamental rights and deprived them of an education. In that regard, his delegation called for the extension of the mandate of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Children and Armed Conflict. Measures should also be taken to address the fact that a significant number of children were being deprived of their freedom. A global study should be undertaken to determine the exact number children affected, which was estimated to be over a million. The promotion and protection of children's rights should be at the heart of the post-2015 development agenda, and the twenty-fifth anniversary of the Convention should serve as an opportunity for States to reaffirm their commitment to children's rights.
43. Ms. Byaje (Rwanda) said that, in order to address the impediments to the physical, psychological and intellectual development of children caused by displacement, poverty, undernutrition, lack of education and insufficient health care, her Government had ratified all international children's rights instruments, including the Convention on the Rights of Child and the optional protocols thereto, the Convention on Protection of Children and Cooperation in respect of Intercountry Adoption and the African Charter on the Rights and Welfare of the Child. It had also submitted its combined third and fourth periodic report to the Committee on the Rights of the Child in May 2013.
44. The 1994 genocide against the Tutsi had left many children in Rwanda in situations of abuse, poverty, disability, displacement and homelessness. In response, the Government had implemented policies to assist vulnerable children and eliminate child labour and had established the National Commission for Children in order to protect children from abuse, violence and exploitation. Efforts to empower families and communities to take responsibility for the proper development of children had made it possible to close orphanages and reintegrate children into family-based care, while social workers and psychologists had been trained to ensure child protection within education, health and justice institutions. The National Commission for Children ensured respect for children's
rights through committees at the national, district and village levels. Annual summits allowed children's representatives to discuss children's rights with the President, Cabinet ministers, members of Parliament and civil society organizations.
45. Rwanda had achieved a significant reduction in under-five mortality rates. Around 95 per cent of children aged between 12 and 23 months had been vaccinated against measles and a community-based nutrition programme for young children was in place. Twelve-year basic education was free and compulsory and schools had been strategically built to reduce traveling distances and thus increase enrolment rates. Rwanda's President had received the Children's Champion Award of the United States Fund for UNICEF in 2009 and Rwanda often ranked among the best countries in which to be born a girl.
46. Ms. Natividad (Philippines) said that over the past three years, her country's economy had become one of the fastest growing in the world. Ensuring that that economic growth resulted in reduced poverty levels required inclusive policies and investment in human capital, especially children. Her Government therefore provided cash grants to families on the condition that their children attended school and received health checks. A universal health care programme had led to a significant reduction in infant mortality rates; the Philippines was likely to achieve its Millennium Development Goal targets by 2015.
47. Disasters could quickly undermine development gains. In 2013, Typhoon Haiyan had devastated an already disenfranchised region in the Philippines, which was home to 5.9 million children. Based on that experience, her Government stressed that children's needs should be at the centre of discussions on disaster relief and management, as disasters not only led to hunger and malnutrition but also interrupted schooling, particularly when schools were used as evacuation centres. Disasters also increased the risk of children becoming victims of human trafficking.
48. Her Government continued to work closely with the Office of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Children and Armed Conflict and the Working Group of the Security Council on Children and Armed Conflict. In that regard, she noted that there were gaps in the Special Representative's reporting process that should be addressed. For example, more frequent and in-depth interaction
8/9
14-62886
A/C.3/69/SR.17
between the Special Representative and other stakeholders in the United Nations system could result in more balanced and impartial reports that were based on accurate and verifiable data.
49. Recalling paragraph 2 (d) of Security Council resolution 1612 (2005), she said that the Government's peace negotiations with the Moro Islamic Liberation Front had concluded successfully and that a draft Bangsamoro law, which sought to include children in the peace process, was under consideration by the Philippine Congress. The law provided for the establishment of development programmes for the youth of Bangsamoro and the protection of children, in particular orphans, from abuse, exploitation and discrimination. Her Government maintained its position that the situation in the Philippines did not warrant its inclusion in the Special Representative's list of countries where children were affected by armed conflict. In August 2013, the President had issued an executive order that established a monitoring, reporting and response system on children in armed conflict. That system, comprised of the armed forces, the police force and several Government offices, ensured that children were not used in armed conflicts in combatant or non-combatant roles.
50. She welcomed the work of the Special Rapporteur on the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography. Cyber pornography was a new form of child sexual exploitation fuelled by rapid technological advances, persisting poverty and the growing disparity in the distribution of wealth. Of particular concern was the fact that offenders and enablers were often the parents or close relatives of victims.
51. The celebration of the twenty-fifth anniversary of the Convention on the Rights of the Child would be an appropriate occasion to examine how the Convention could be used to tackle new and evolving challenges, particularly those related to the rights of the girl child and the continuing failure of many States to register the births of migrant children, thereby denying them their rights to an identity and a nationality.
The meeting rose at 3.10 p.m.
14-62886
9/9