United Nations
A/C.3/71/SR.5
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
Official Records
Distr.: General 21 October 2016
Original: English
Third Committee
Summary record of the 5th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Thursday, 6 October 2016, at 10 a.m.
Chair: Ms. Mej^a Velez (Colombia)
later: Mr. Glossner (Vice-Chair) (Germany)
later: Ms. Mej^a Velez (Chair) (Colombia)
Contents
Agenda item 106: Crime prevention and criminal justice Agenda item 107: International drug control
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Control Unit (srcorrections@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
16-17327 (E)
in in11 iiwmwwww
A/C.3/71/SR.5
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 106: Crime prevention and criminal justice (A/71/94, A/71/96, A/71/114, A/71/119,
A/71/120 and A/71/121)
Agenda item 107: International drug control
(A/71/316)
1. Mr. Fedotov (Executive Director, United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC)), speaking via video link, said that it had been a challenging and important year for international efforts in addressing crime prevention, criminal justice, drug control, corruption and terrorism. The special session of the General Assembly on the world drug problem, held in April 2016, had helped to advance a balanced, integrated and rights -based approach to the world drug problem that addressed such challenges as evidence based prevention and treatment, access to controlled medicines for pain relief, criminal justice and law enforcement responses that adhered to the principles of proportionality and the rule of law, and mainstreaming issues of gender and youth in drug-related policies and programmes. The outcome document entitled “Our joint commitment to effectively addressing and countering the world drug problem” reinforced the global commitment to the three international drug conventions and provided a robust framework for updating the Political Declaration and Plan of Action on International Cooperation towards an Integrated and Balanced Strategy to Counter the World Drug Problem. In addition, the Commission on Narcotic Drugs was engaged in comprehensive follow-up, with the participation of United Nations entities, international and regional organizations and non-governmental organizations.
2. UNODC would continue to work closely with other United Nations partners to address the challenges surrounding illicit drugs. The Office was field testing international standards for the treatment of drug use disorders in partnership with the World Health Organization (WHO) and had launched a global campaign on evidence-based drug prevention. As a cosponsor of the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS), UNODC was helping to fasttrack HIV/AIDS assistance to drug users and inmates. The special session and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development had provided new momentum for
alternative development as a means of reducing the illicit cultivation of coca, opium poppy and cannabis as well as improving the socioeconomic conditions of marginalized communities through the provision of legitimate income-earning opportunities.
3. The sixth session of the Conference of the States Parties to the United Nations Convention against Corruption had launched the second cycle of the review mechanism to address prevention and asset recovery. UNODC was also assisting Member States in the implementation of the Doha Declaration, adopted at the thirteenth United Nations Congress on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice. With the support of Qatar, the concrete follow -up process had focused on strengthening judicial integrity and education for justice, thereby contributing to efforts to achieve Goal 16 of the Sustainable Development Goals. The upcoming eighth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime would represent an important opportunity to further strengthen international cooperation against transnational threats, including trafficking in cultural property, piracy and maritime crime.
4. The country, regional and global programmes of UNODC, along with its close partnerships with United Nations agencies, the International Criminal Police Organization (INTERPOL) and others, aided in developing capacities in intelligence-led policing, crime scene management, special investigative techniques, forensics, financial investigations and border management, as well as inter-agency, regional and interregional cooperation to promote information sharing and multilateral operations targeting serious crime and illicit financial flows. In response to requests from Member States and Security Council and General Assembly resolutions on terrorism and violent extremism, UNODC was further strengthening its services in legal assistance and capacity-building to address the phenomenon of foreign terrorist fighters and the links between organized crime and terrorism.
5. UNODC also continued to provide the international community with the highest level of research and analysis in areas under its mandate. The World Drug Report 2016 explored the issues of drugs and sustainable development and provided a better understanding of how to integrate drug policy and
2/19
16-17327
A/C.3/71/SR.5
development interventions. The first World Wildlife Crime Report, also released in 2016, had revealed the vulnerabilities of wildlife and forests to crime. The biennial Global Report on Trafficking in Persons, to be released in November 2016, would highlight the need to address criminal abuse and exploitation in the context of the current refugee and migrant crisis. UNODC would continue to support Member States in implementing the two supplemental protocols to the Convention against Transnational Organized Crime in order to promote justice and protect victims of human trafficking and migrant smuggling.
6. UNODC was committed to providing support to Member States while seeking to use its budget efficiently, increase accountability and transparency, adhere to results-based management and independent evaluation, mainstream a gender perspective across its work and mandates and promote geographic representation and gender equality in its staff. Extrabudgetary funding had tripled in the past decade but unearmarked contributions had fallen drastically, and UNODC received less than 1 per cent of the overall regular budget of the United Nations. In response, the Office had introduced a full costrecovery model, in line with United Nations Secretariat policies, but was still struggling to ensure the sustainability of some of its country and regional offices, which were crucial to the fulfilment of its mandate. UNODC needed more regular budget resources as well as funds from other sources in order to manage core activities and institutional initiatives, conduct normative work and research and respond swiftly to calls for action from Member States.
7. Mr. Rios Sanchez (Mexico) said that there must be collaboration and coordination among all United Nations agencies, as well as communication with the General Assembly. The World Drug Report placed a particular emphasis on the supply and availability of new psychoactive substances; however, there should also be a deeper analysis of demand and consumption. The momentum from the commitments made at the special session must be maintained.
8. Mr. Ruiz Blanco (Colombia) said that his delegation appreciated the work that UNODC had undertaken in Colombia to reduce demand, promote alternative development, strengthen the justice system and combat trafficking in persons. It welcomed the
decision made by the Commission on Narcotic Drugs to hold four meetings in October 2016 and devote one day to the implementation and follow-up of the outcomes of the special session. He asked what actions UNODC had been carrying out with other United Nations agencies to ensure the collective, efficient implementation of the recommendations from the special session.
9. Mr. Fedotov (Executive Director, United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC)), said that new psychoactive substances were one of the major challenges mentioned in the outcome document of the special session. UNODC would therefore continue to collaborate with the International Narcotics Control Board and WHO in the area of new psychoactive substances and assist countries in developing strategies to meet that challenge through legislation and international cooperation and coordination.
10. UNODC was committed to working closely with its partners in other United Nations agencies. The Office was field testing international standards for the treatment of drug use disorders, which had been adopted by the Commission on Narcotic Drugs, in partnership with WHO and was working closely with the Committee of Cosponsoring Organizations under its partnership with UNAIDS. In addition to implementing country and regional programmes, UNODC carried out work as part of the United Nations country teams, in accordance with the delivering as one initiative. In promoting alternative development, which focused on the development of infrastructure and facilities to provide farmers with alternatives, UNODC relied on the support of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), international financial institutions and other international partners.
11. Mr. Rattray (Jamaica), speaking on behalf of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), said that CARICOM member States faced significant challenges to achieving sustainable development and maintaining socioeconomic stability as a result of transnational organized crime, especially trafficking in drugs and persons, the illicit trade in small arms and ammunition and money-laundering. The small island developing States, which had high debt burdens and operated in tight fiscal environments, were forced to divert resources from pressing development activities such as education, healthcare and infrastructure development
16-17327
3/19
A/C.3/71/SR.5
to address crime. In addition, criminal activity robbed the region of the contribution of youth, its largest human resource group. CARICOM aimed to open opportunities for employment and entrepreneurship so that people, youth in particular, could become more resilient to the lure of organized criminal gangs. Greater effort should be placed on addressing the root causes of crime in order to more effectively counter its appeal and reduce its occurrence.
12. CARICOM had continued to combat illegal activities through the CARICOM Crime and Security Strategy and through cooperation with key partners, including the European Development Fund and UNODC. Training of border officials had continued under the Caribbean Basin Security Initiative, and capacity-building had been strengthened in areas such as detection, interdiction and risk management in order to enhance regional border security. CARICOM called on its development partners to continue to provide and expand international cooperation, information sharing, capacity-building and technical assistance in support of its efforts to comprehensively reduce criminal activities, improve criminal justice responses and create peaceful and inclusive societies. Money laundering and other financial crimes required a collective response from the international community. CARICOM fully supported compliance with the highest standards of oversight and accountability in the global financial system; however, the response to those regulations must be balanced and proportionate. Many CARICOM member States were vulnerable because some correspondent banks and Europe and North America were unwilling to risk the high fines and other penalties arising from the potential illicit activities conducted by third-party clients. A reasonable solution could be found to safeguard the international financial system while ensuring the continued viability and participation of small economies and their indigenous banks in the global financial system.
13. The special session had provided a good opportunity to engage in fruitful dialogue on existing measures to address the world drug problem and determine operational recommendations for the future. The outcome document of the special session had not fully met the ambitious expectations of CARICOM member States, and the process of drafting the outcome document had not adequately facilitated the effective participation of small delegations, in particular
CARICOM member States that did not have permanent representation in Vienna. The world drug problem posed a multidimensional challenge that required a multifaceted and comprehensive response. Drug control policies should always maintain a focus on health and well-being, as established in the three international drug conventions. CARICOM supported balanced and effective drug control policies to reduce supply and demand; ensure availability of controlled substances for medical and scientific purposes; strengthen international cooperation against trafficking, money-laundering and other associated criminal activities; balance development and socioeconomic concerns; uphold human rights and justice; and take into account emerging realities, trends and circumstances at the national, regional and global levels. CARICOM looked forward to discussions on the implementation of the outcome document of the special session and other measures. The General Assembly should give early consideration to determining the follow -up to the Political Declaration and Plan of Action on International Cooperation towards an Integrated and Balanced Strategy to Counter the World Drug Problem, set to expire in 2019. UNODC required adequate, predictable and stable resources to fulfil its mandate, in particular with regard to supporting the capacity-building requirements of Member States and cooperation with regional bodies.
14. Mr. Teo (Singapore), speaking on behalf of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), said that the ASEAN ministerial meeting on transnational crime met regularly to coordinate initiatives and respond to emerging issues, and the ASEAN Plan of Action to Combat Transnational Crime had strengthened the region's capacity to combat transnational terrorism, drug trafficking, arms smuggling, money-laundering, trafficking in persons, cybercrime and sea piracy. The ASEAN Convention on Trafficking in Persons had been signed at the twenty-seventh ASEAN Summit, held in 2015. The ASEAN Commission on the Promotion and Protection of the Rights of Women and Children had recently launched a review of regional laws, policies and practices with a view to providing an accurate and updated assessment of human trafficking in the region and determining best practices and recommendations for action. The ASEAN Convention on Counter-Terrorism aligned the region's efforts with the United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy,
4/19
16-17327
A/C.3/71/SR.5
as well as relevant United Nations resolutions and conventions.
15. In 2014, the ASEAN Senior Officials Meeting on Transnational Crime had established a dedicated working group on cybercrime to restructure and enhance regional efforts. In 2016, Singapore would host the Singapore International Cyber Week, which would feature an ASEAN ministerial conference on cybersecurity to discuss strategies for enhanced response, confidence -building and capacity -building. There would also be an ASEAN cybercrime prosecutors' roundtable meeting to serve as a platform for knowledge sharing.
16. Since the commitment made in 2012 to achieve a drug-free region, ASEAN leaders had maintained a zero-tolerance approach to drugs and continued to implement additional regional mechanisms to combat the drug problem. The special session of the General Assembly on the world drug problem had been an important milestone in the review of the 2009 Political Declaration and Plan of Action, due to take place in 2019. The implementation of the recommendations in the outcome document of the special session would bolster national and regional efforts to achieve a drug free society. ASEAN strongly supported a focus on the three international drug conventions, which remained relevant and would continue to serve as a cornerstone of the global drug policy. Each State should determine and implement the policies that best catered to its individual needs based on its unique circumstances and societal norms, as there was no one-size-fits-all approach to addressing the drug issue.
17. ASEAN pledged its continued support to the Commission on Narcotic Drugs and looked forward to continuing its cooperation with the United Nations, in particular with UNODC, to share best practices and determine effective strategies to eradicate illicit drugs and international crime.
18. Mr Glossner (Germany), Vice-Chair, took the Chair
19. Mr. Wafy (Niger), speaking on behalf of the Group of African States, said that the Group continued to work towards reducing crime levels and had made progress in pursuing regional approaches to international criminal justice and applying regional and international conventions. African States had shown resolve in settling conflicts within their borders with
support from the international community and continued to improve on important benchmarks of good governance, the rule of law and constitutional order. Many African States found it challenging to effectively deal with crime due to their vast, porous borders, coastlines, poorly regulated airfields, weakened governance infrastructure and limited law enforcement capacity. UNODC and the United Nations African Institute for the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders had provided technical support to many African States and should continue to receive international support. The Group was concerned that the inadequate finances of the Institute had greatly affected its capacity to effectively deliver services to African Member States and called on the Secretary General to continue his efforts to mobilize the financial resources necessary to maintain the Institute with the core professional staff required to effectively fulfil its mandate. The Terrorism Prevention Branch of UNODC had increased support for training in countering the financing of terrorism and strengthening regional and international cooperation.
20. Drug trafficking and drug use continued to be a major social and health challenge facing many developing countries across the globe. In Africa, the situation was further exacerbated by high levels of income inequality, a high rate of urbanization, low levels of criminal justice resources, wars and civil conflicts and weak controls over criminal activities. Youth, who were mostly undereducated and unemployed, were vulnerable to recruitment in the drug trafficking chain. The fifth session of the African Union Conference of Ministers for Drug Control had adopted the African Union Plan of Action on Drug Control (2013 -2017) in order to improve health, security and socioeconomic well-being of people in Africa by reducing illicit drug use, trafficking and associated crimes. The plan of action complemented the existing initiatives of the African Union Commission to address organized crime. Despite those efforts, production, trafficking and use of illicit drugs continued to be a growing challenge in Africa. Although production mainly focused on cannabis, there was an emerging threat of locally manufactured amphetamine-type stimulants. In addition, African States had seen an increase in the trafficking and consumption of stolen or counterfeit prescription drugs and precursor chemicals containing controlled
16-17327
5/19
A/C.3/71/SR.5
substances and were increasingly being used for the transit of heroin to final destinations in other regions. Insufficient and unreliable information and limited treatment options further compounded those issues. National health-care systems lacked the financial resources to adequately meet treatment demands. Weak and under-resourced criminal justice systems and relentless attempts by criminal groups to intimidate and corrupt officials often hampered efforts to curtail the illicit drug trade, and drug offenders, including those accused of minor infractions, represented a disproportionately high percentage of people in pretrial detention and prison. To address those challenges, the Group had galvanized national and international cooperation to support the implementation of the regional Plan of Action. Member States had established or were in the process of establishing integrated national programmes to combat drug trafficking, drug use and associated transnational organized crime in collaboration with UNODC.
21. The Group reiterated that the main objective of drug policies should be to improve the health, safety, welfare and socioeconomic well-being of people and societies by adopting appropriate measures to combat illicit crop cultivation, production, manufacture, transit, trafficking, distribution and use of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. The Group highlighted the urgent need to respond to the serious challenges posed by the increasing connections between drug trafficking, corruption and other forms of organized crime, including trafficking in persons, trafficking in firearms, cybercrime, terrorism and money-laundering, and called on the international community to strengthen its resolve to address those challenges by adopting appropriate and sustainable policies.
22. Mr. O'Brien (Observer for the European Union), speaking also on behalf of the candidate countries Albania, Montenegro, Serbia and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia; the stabilisation and association process country Bosnia and Herzegovina; and, in addition, Armenia, Georgia, the Republic of Moldova and Ukraine, said that the special session had allowed the international community to progress towards a more balanced, comprehensive and coherent approach to the world drug problem, recognizing the key objectives of respect for human rights, promotion of public health and the need for balance in reducing
both drug demand and supply. The progress made at the special session, along with the outcome document, should be the basis for discussions in the 2019 revision of the Political Declaration and Plan of Action.
23. The European Union welcomed the call, in the outcome document, to provide access to risk and harm reduction measures, such as medication-assisted therapy programmes, injecting equipment programmes, antiretroviral therapy and other interventions that prevented the transmission of HIV. The recommendations in favour of availability and access to controlled medicines for pain relief and suffering also marked a step forward in the international strategy to address the world drug problem. Gender and age perspectives must be appropriately mainstreamed in drug policies, as the different needs of women, children, youth and other vulnerable groups required specific attention. Collaboration with civil society was essential in drug policy formation, follow-up and implementation, and must be guaranteed in the 2019 revision process. The outcome document of the special session also called on Member States to promote proportionality in sentencing for drug offenses and to implement alternative measures of punishment. The European Union and its member States were opposed to the death penalty in all circumstances, including for drug offenses, and regretted that the outcome document did not include language on capital punishment, despite the fact that a significant number of countries were taking steps to reduce its imposition.
24. The drugs market remained one of the most profitable criminal markets. European Union member States acknowledged their responsibility to counter the threats related to being countries of destination, production and transit and, for the past six years, had applied the European Union policy cycle for organized and serious international crime to complement the targeted work of law enforcement agencies. The European Union supported the recommendations made at the special session for enhanced cooperation on drug supply reduction and hoped to see more measures applied in practice that would address the vulnerabilities enabling organized crime; enhance cooperation in criminal matters, including judicial cooperation; and focus on the individuals and organizations responsible for illicit activities on a larger scale and the resulting illicit financial flows. The European Union was pleased that the special session
6/19
16-17327
A/C.3/71/SR.5
had recognized the reality of new psychoactive substances and the use of the Internet as a large marketplace for those drugs and other drug-related criminal activity. Access to research, evaluation and monitoring was vital to ensuring more effective decisions on drug policies, which should be built upon an integrated, balanced and evidence-based approach supported by objective monitoring and evaluation systems. Alternative development should be promoted as a sustainable and holistic approach to tackle the root causes of the illicit cultivation of drug crops. As long as poverty, limited access to legal markets and weak rule of law persisted, the effectiveness of any intervention would be limited. The European Union welcomed the growing engagement of the private sector to provide viable alternatives to the cultivation of illicit crops. The special session had recognized the need to ensure appropriate financing for alternative development and had called for drug policy to be placed in a wider socioeconomic context and brought in line with the 2030 Agenda on Sustainable Development.
25. The European Union encouraged the Commission on Narcotic Drugs to promote open debate and the free exchange of information and welcomed the involvement of a wider circle of relevant United Nations bodies, such as UNODC, WHO, UNAIDS, and UNDP, as well as civil society and the scientific community. Priority should be given to actions based on the recommendations of the special session. The European Union was strongly committed to exchanging information and experiences in order to foster the implementation of all special session operational recommendations and monitor developments and results.
26. Ms. Mej^a Velez (Colombia) resumed the Chair
27. Mr. Brownfield (United States of America) said that the Third Committee played a unique role in assisting Member States in the promotion of fair, effective and accountable criminal justice systems. In addition to the adoption of the resolution by the United Nations Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice on restorative justice in criminal matters, the international community was putting Goal 16 into practice by promoting access to legal aid and creating new tools, resources and networks for criminal justice practitioners around the world. The eighth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations
Convention against Transnational Organized Crime, to be held in Vienna in 2016, would allow experts to break down barriers to cross-border investigations and prosecutions of transnational organized criminals.
28. At the special session of the General Assembly on the world drug problem, the international community had advanced a comprehensive, balanced approach to international drug policy. It was now time to implement those recommendations by enhancing the collaboration between health and criminal justice sectors at all levels. Supply and demand for drugs must be reduced simultaneously, and there must be a dramatic increase in the availability of effective prevention and evidence-based treatment efforts.
29. Synthetic drugs, which were extremely profitable and easy to make, were one of the most alarming emerging drug threats. The international community must accelerate the scheduling of the myriad of synthetic substances and the precursor chemicals used to make them. The United States of America and other countries faced an epidemic of opioid abuse, including the use of the synthetic drug fentanyl and its analogues, which could turn low-grade heroin into a drug with an incredibly potent high. International control regimes and law enforcement must do more to address the magnitude of that growing challenge.
30. The international community had a common, shared responsibility to work together in order to achieve the goals of improving justice systems, fighting transnational organized crime and decreasing the damage caused by drugs.
31. Ms. Abdelkawy (Egypt) said that crime prevention and the establishment of a humane justice system were key elements for sustainable development. Egypt respected all of its commitments as a party to international and regional conventions on drug trafficking, organized crime and corruption. UNODC should be provided with adequate, predictable and stable resources, including additional regular budget resources as well as voluntary contributions, to enable it to respond effectively to the increasing demand for technical assistance. Egypt coordinated with the Regional Office for the Middle East and North Africa, which provided technical assistance in trafficking in persons, the fight against drug addiction and corruption and juvenile justice. The Regional Office for West and Central Africa, which played an important role in
16-17327
7/19
A/C.3/71/SR.5
fostering peace in the region, was facing financial difficulties. She invited the international community to support the United Nations African Institute for the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders
32. A neutral, transparent implementation review mechanism was needed for the Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and its protocols. International cooperation in the fight against terrorism must be consolidated, and international efforts must be coordinated. Egypt contributed to that work as a member of the Security Council and as Chair of the Counter-Terrorism Committee. Many countries were facing war and unprecedented numbers of refugees. Countries of origin, transit and destination must cooperate to assist the victims of crimes, especially women and children. The Government welcomed the efforts made by the Inter-Agency Coordination Group against Trafficking in Persons and believed that more emphasis should be placed on the celebration of the World Day against Trafficking in Persons at the end of July.
33. The special session of the General Assembly on the world drug problem had provided an opportunity to review the progress made in implementing the 2009 Political Declaration and Plan of Action in order to develop the global strategy to address the world drug problem, which should evaluate progress within the framework of the three international drug conventions and other international instruments.
34. Ms. Mukhametzyanova (Russian Federation) said that, as organized crime evolved, the international community needed to continue to enhance the framework governing multilateral cooperation by adopting new international legal instruments that took into account new types of criminal activity. It was also important to continue efforts towards launching an intergovernmental, non-politicized implementation review mechanism of the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime, to be financed from the regular budget. The Government supported the efforts of UNODC to combat criminal activity and believed that its research potential should be strengthened. The Russian Federation also supported strengthening international anticorruption efforts based on the United Nations Convention against Corruption. Other international activities should not replace the United Nations mechanism, but rather complement it.
Asset recovery could be a prospective subject for a new international legal instrument. The review mechanism of the Convention against Corruption had proven to be an effective instrument for international cooperation and did not require any revision. The international community must strictly comply with the fundamental principles of the review mechanism, which was intergovernmental in nature.
35. The Government was concerned by the spread of new psychoactive substances and the use of the Internet in drug smuggling. It was imperative for States to fully and effectively implement the three international drug conventions, the 2009 Political Declaration and Plan of Action as well as the outcome document of the special session. The Russian Federation was categorically opposed to any initiatives aimed at revising the existing international system of drug control, including the legalization of certain types of drugs and supported the central coordinating role of the United Nations Commission on Narcotic Drugs as the main policymaking body in that area. In the upcoming review of the implementation of the 2009 Political Declaration and Plan of Action, the Government was firmly opposed to the creation of expert groups or other consultative bodies which would duplicate the work of the Commission. The powers of the Commission must not be redistributed to other United Nations bodies and agencies.
36. The drug threat emanating from Afghanistan continued to jeopardize international peace and stability and deserved special attention. The situation was further compounded by the increasing connections between criminal groups and international terrorist networks, primarily through financing derived from Afghan opiate trafficking. The drug problem in Afghanistan must be monitored and analysed by United Nations agencies in order to take targeted measures to destroy drug crops and laboratories and stem drug flows. Mechanisms developed with the participation of the Russian Federation could be helpful, including the Collective Security Treaty Organization and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization. The Afghan drug problem could only be addressed through the joint efforts of the international community to eradicate drug production and drug infrastructure.
37. Mr. Joshi (India) said that the outcome document of the special session had been a landmark
8/19
16-17327
A/C.3/71/SR.5
development in global drug policy, containing concrete operational recommendations based on the principle of common and differentiated responsibilities and a public health approach while reaffirming the centrality and relevance of the three international drug conventions. The international community must honour the commitments made at the special session to promote long-term, balanced drug control policies and programmes with a focus on sustainable development.
38. The Government of India strongly supported the Paris Pact initiative of UNODC and worked to combat the drug problem with concrete national policies and memoranda of understanding with neighbouring countries. The prime minister had put forth an initiative that focused on better health and rehabilitation services, greater awareness in schools and colleges and stringent enforcement of anti-drugtrafficking measures. A committee and an online monitoring system had been established to confront the emergence of new psychoactive substances. The challenge of determining the scale of illicit manufacturing operations would require capacity building and technical assistance, particularly for developing countries.
39. Measures must be put in place to limit drug abuse without affecting its legitimate use, particularly for medication. As a supplier of opiate raw material and a longstanding cultivator of licit opium, India had endeavoured to uphold its responsibilities in accordance with the principles of the three international drug conventions, including the principle of balance.
40. Terrorism in all its forms and manifestations must be condemned and dealt with in the strongest terms. India had a policy of zero tolerance towards terrorism and those who aided and abetted terrorist acts and provided safe havens to their perpetrators. Transnational organized crime continued to threaten the rule of law and was an impediment to peaceful and inclusive societies and the realization of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Drug trafficking and money-laundering to finance criminal activities and terrorism remained one of the most serious challenges facing the world.
41. The principle of rule of law was paramount. India was a party to all major United Nations conventions relating to crime, trafficking, corruption, anti-money-
laundering and countering the financing of terrorism and had bilateral agreements with a number of countries. In addition, the Government was committed to implementing the 2010 Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons and was a member of the Financial Action Task Force. The international community must deal with the perpetrators of cybercrime more effectively and unite to prevent crimes against cultural heritage and national monuments committed by fundamentalists. India was fully committed to working closely with other countries and UNODC to achieve a world free of illicit drugs, narcoterrorism and organized crime.
42. Mr. Gomez Camacho (Mexico) said that drug control was a priority for his country, which had paid a high price in the lives of its citizens. Mexico had experienced first-hand the limitations and consequences of the current model, which had not managed to curb production, trafficking or consumption of drugs in the world. At the special session, his Government had called for a review of international strategies and for better options that would focus on the well-being of humankind. Improved coordination among United Nations agencies, such as UNODC, WHO, UNDP, and UN-Women and the International Narcotics Control Board, would provide States with the support needed to implement better anti-drug strategies and policies that aligned with the 2030 Agenda.
43. Affected communities must be supported, with opportunities for alternatives in education, work and recreation to strengthen inclusion and social cohesion. The prohibition model, with its many limitations, should be replaced by a perspective focused on human rights and public health, with proportional punishments and alternatives to incarceration. The Government rejected the imposition of the death penalty in any circumstance. The international community must combine its efforts to prevent drug consumption, through campaigns directed at children and youth, and to ensure availability and access to controlled substances for medical and scientific purposes, including pain relievers. It was unacceptable that 90 per cent of pain medication was consumed in only 10 countries.
44. Mr. Ruiz Blanco (Colombia) said that the special session of the General Assembly on the world drug
16-17327
9/19
A/C.3/71/SR.5
problem should not be seen as the end of a process, but rather as the beginning of a transformation in the drug policy that would put an end to the long war on drugs, which had focused a disproportionate amount of resources on repressive strategies that had impacted the weakest sectors of society. The international community must abandon indiscriminate repressive measures, budgets disproportionally focused on punitive strategies and national policies that neglected the most vulnerable sectors and move towards a new consensus based on human rights, public health and well-being, security and development.
45. The consensus reached at the special session did not address all facets of the problem, but was the most comprehensive agreement reached thus far. Assuming that it was impossible to achieve a world free of drugs, efforts could be focused on more realistic goals, such as avoiding their abuse and minimizing their harmful consequences. Such goals would clearly encompass the protection of human rights and align with the 2030 Agenda, two aspects that had not been a priority in the drug policy. There must also be flexibility for countries to apply drug policies in accordance with their own situations.
46. Columbia would continue to tackle organized crime, replacing illicit crops with licit crops and intercepting ships and planes that trafficked drugs. The fight against drugs was not only a moral imperative for Columbia, it was a matter of national security, and the Government would continue to strive to achieve peace with guerrilla groups that had taken part in the drug trafficking chain, turning them into allies who could help eradicate illicit crops and promote alternative activities.
47. Ms. Rodriguez Abascal (Cuba) said that the fight against transnational trafficking in persons, drug trafficking, money-laundering operations, arms smuggling and terrorism required robust international cooperation based on full respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of States and in accordance with national laws. The fight against crime must go hand-in-hand with the fight for development and the establishment of a more just, democratic and equitable international order.
48. Of all the forms of transnational organized crime, drug trafficking had the highest social and human cost. Drug abuse and dependency not only posed a serious
health problem, but also threatened security and economic and social progress and perpetuated the cycles of poverty, violence, criminal behaviour and social exclusion. The principle of common and shared responsibility was imperative; it would be very difficult to resolve the problem of drug production and trafficking in the impoverished South without eliminating demand in the developed North. Furthermore, the problem would not be solved by militarizing countries, levelling farms, legalizing drugs or classifying them as harmless substances.
49. The Government was opposed to discussions and actions that could damage the current drug control regime. It supported the current legal framework and the three international drug conventions and highlighted the importance of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs as the principle United Nations body governing the world drug problem. Cuba had a zero tolerance policy on drug production, consumption and trafficking. The Government had established prevention programmes that focused on healthcare, rehabilitation and social reintegration as a way to counteract drug addiction.
50. Cuba collaborated with international partners and complied with all international obligations in the fight against organized crime. The country was a party to the 16 international instruments on combating terrorism and rigorously complied with the provisions of Security Council resolution 1373 (2001), under which it had submitted numerous reports. Nearly 3,500 Cuban citizens had lost their lives and nearly 3,000 had been maimed by terrorist attacks against Cuba in over half a century, and yet, several of the confessed perpetrators of those acts lived with impunity. Cuban territory had never been used nor would it ever be used to organize, finance or carry out terrorist acts against any country and Cuba rejected unilateral lists of countries that had supposedly committed violations relating to transnational organized crime, as the compilation of such lists was contrary to international law.
51. The Cuba Adjustment Act and the so -called “wet foot, dry foot” policy were still in effect, encouraging illegal and unsafe migration and trafficking of Cuban citizens to the United States which had caused a large number of deaths since its promulgation and had created difficulties for countries in the region.
10/19
16-17327
A/C.3/71/SR.5
52. Mr. Saikal (Afghanistan) said that terrorism and violent extremism was by far the greatest and most menacing challenge facing the international community. Terrorists groups continued to affect peace, security, social order and economic development. As his country had seen over the last two decades, the threat posed by terrorism, in connection with other criminal activities and drugs, was real and growing quickly. The international community must put aside its differences and utilize all available resources to combat the problem. The United Nations could play an important role in developing a better, more feasible international approach to terrorism and violent extremism by further strengthening the global regime, with a focus on those who used terrorism and militant extremism as a political weapon to further their hegemonic ambitions. Illicit drugs facilitated other forms of transnational organized crimes and continued to undermine stability and economic development. The connection between the illicit drug trade and terrorist groups in the region had contributed to the security challenges in Afghanistan, as drug related proceeds were used to fuel violence in the country.
53. According to UNODC reports, the bulk of opium poppy cultivation and opiate production occurred in the provinces with the poorest security and the leastdeveloped economy and infrastructure. The Government of Afghanistan had taken a number of steps to address the problem and had succeeded in reducing opiate production by 11 per cent and poppy cultivation by 19 per cent since 2015. The national plan of action focused on law enforcement, education and public health in the context of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Over the next five years, the Government would continue to provide alternative livelihoods for farmers while strictly enforcing laws against money-laundering and drug trafficking.
54. The Brussels Conference on Afghanistan, which supported the national plan of action, had marked a new phase of mutual commitment between the Government and the international community and stressed the need for a sustained and integrated approach in order to effectively reduce the illicit production and trafficking of narcotics and precursor products and fight organized crime. The effects of drug cultivation, production, trafficking and consumption were vast and devastating and required a
comprehensive, global and unified response focused on trade, trafficking, production and consumption. The people and Government of Afghanistan were strongly committed to continuing their efforts to build upon the achievements of the last 16 years and to lay a new foundation for progress and advancement for future generations.
55. Ms. Sandoval (Nicaragua) said that the Nicaraguan model was a humble contribution to regional peace and security, and yet it was the country's main contribution to the international community. Crime prevention and criminal justice agencies formed part of a system that was based on citizen participation. Government policy aimed to build a State that promoted Christian values, socialist ideals and solidarity. That meant advancing policies that strengthened the family and developing programmes that promoted, protected and restored human rights, with special attention to women, children, youth and the elderly. The Nicaraguan model served as a retaining wall against drug trafficking, focused on citizen and human security, established a national campaign for a drug-free Nicaragua and benefited from a highly effective criminal justice system.
56. The world drug problem was a serious threat to peace and State sovereignty. It undermined socioeconomic and political stability and sustainable development. The Government of Nicaragua acknowledged the full validity and relevance of all United Nations conventions on drugs and called for their effective implementation. Deregulation and legalization of drugs were not viable options; those policies would lead to increased drug use and were contrary to the provisions of current international drug control instruments. The world drug problem must be addressed while respecting each nation's specific situation, priorities and legal system, in strict compliance with the United Nations Charter and international law. The Government reaffirmed the principle of common but differentiated responsibility and encouraged the broadest international cooperation, including the exchange of experiences and good practices and the provision of greater financial and logistical resources to transit countries.
57. The world drug problem continued to present global and regional challenges to security, health and well-being. The international community needed to
16-17327
11/19
A/C.3/71/SR.5
implement public policies and strategies that would focus on human beings, family and the community, within the principle of sovereign security. The Government rejected unilateral lists and certifications and similar measures and invited all countries to reflect on the world drug problem and analyse and discuss effective measures that would strengthen international action to find solutions.
58. Ms. Nescher-Stuetzel (Liechtenstein) said that human trafficking and modern slavery were grave violations of human rights and obstacles to sustainable development that threatened peace and security, especially when proceeds were used to finance terrorist activities and fuel armed conflicts. Liechtenstein, together with the United Nations University, the United Kingdom and civil society partners, had hosted a seminar whose report outlined 10 suggestions for action to be taken by the Security Council and other bodies. Follow -up action to the seminar would focus on disrupting illicit financial flows and using relevant data for criminal prosecutions. The Government of Liechtenstein would continue to promote the greater involvement of international justice mechanisms where national judiciaries systematically failed and looked forward to participating in the review of the Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons.
59. Her delegation was disappointed that the outcome document of the special session reflected a status quo heavily based on a punitive approach, which had not proven successful. The international drug control framework should address the health and welfare of humanity; however, the World Drug Report had found that current drug policies had shifted precious resources away from public health to law enforcement. The current regime was outdated and facilitated lucrative and violent criminal black markets while criminalizing and marginalizing drug users. The 2019 review of the Political Declaration and Plan of Action would provide the international community a chance to change course. The application of the death penalty for drug offences was a violation of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, as drug offences were not among the most serious crimes. Moreover, evidence continued to show that capital punishment was not a deterrent. Liechtenstein therefore called for the universal abolition of the death penalty. The flagrant human rights violations committed by countries employing extrajudicial killings to combat
drug use and drug trafficking were even more alarming and could amount to crimes against humanity.
60. Her delegation welcomed the language condemning corruption in all its forms and at all levels in the resolution on preventing and combating corrupt practices, which amounted to recognition of how bribery undermined the ability of millions of individuals to enjoy their human rights and fundamental freedoms. In the past, technical language had overshadowed the effects of corruption on human rights. If the international community was serious about crime prevention, criminal justice and drug control, the underlying human rights violations needed to be acknowledged and prevented.
61. Mr. Meza-Cuadra (Peru) said that his country was firmly committed to working to combat the illicit drug trade, which was a central theme of its foreign policy. The world drug problem was a challenge that negatively impacted public health and the quality and well-being of communities; undermined sustainable development, judicial systems, political and economic stability and democratic institutions; and threatened security, democracy and governance around the world. The illicit drug trade was bolstered by its connection with other transborder crimes, such as illegal logging, trafficking in persons and illegal mining. At the same time, the consumption of drugs and the vulnerability of dependent drug abusers caused suffering for drug users, their families and their communities, and posed a serious danger to the health, dignity and well -being of humankind. The situation had worsened due to a surge in new psychoactive substances, new and expanding routes for transnational trade and harm caused to the environment. The international community must unify under the principle of common and shared responsibility, ensuring an equitable commitment to counter the different manifestations of the drug problem and strengthen drug control capacities for all countries.
62. The national strategy to combat drugs for 20122016 was currently being updated for the period of 2017-2021, with a significant national investment and support from the international community. The strategy had yielded positive results in all areas of its intervention, including drug prevention, chemical control and prohibition, and had reduced the amount of illicit crops in Peru, an achievement that had only been possible with
12/19
16-17327
A/C.3/71/SR.5
the commitment made by all social actors to comprehensive and sustainable alternative development.
63. Anti-drug policies should be framed by the three international drug conventions and other relevant United Nations instruments and must address equally all of the pillars of the strategy: the reduction of supply and demand, comprehensive and sustainable alternative development, the fight against money-laundering, judicial cooperation and a focus on addressing other related crimes. The international community must promote a comprehensive, balanced, multidisciplinary and sustainable approach based on scientific evidence and full respect for human rights. Any one component should not be prioritized over another. Peru shared the position of many countries that, in the past, too much emphasis had been placed on security to the detriment of issues such as public health. The outcome document of the special session recognized that the world drug problem continued to be a common and shared responsibility, which must be tackled in a multilateral environment with more effective international cooperation.
64. Mr. Dapkiunas (Belarus) said that, with regard to crime prevention and criminal justice, the eighth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime would provide an important opportunity to take stock of the implementation of the Convention and its protocols since the last conference had been held in 2014. Particular attention should be paid to determining future measures to counter transnational organized crime in the context of the 2030 Agenda and to efforts to counteract new and emerging threats, such as organ trafficking, cybercrime, modern piracy, illicit trafficking in cultural property and environmental crimes. Belarus hoped that an agreement could be reached regarding the implementation review mechanism of the Convention and its protocols. The Government welcomed the efforts of UNODC to assist States in implementing the supporting Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children and supported the coordinating role of the Office in the Inter-Agency Coordination Group against Trafficking in Persons. Efforts to counter human trafficking depended on the effective implementation of the Protocol and other instruments, including the United Nations Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons. In 2017, the United Nations would hold a high-level meeting to
assess the progress in implementing the Global Plan of Action. The meeting would serve as an opportunity to identify problems and challenges in the implementation of the Global Plan of Action, the Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and other instruments to combat human trafficking.
65. With regard to international drug control, the delegation of Belarus welcomed the outcome document of the special session, which would further reinforce the international system of drug control. The Government supported the work of UNODC and the International Narcotics Control Board aimed at enhancing international cooperation on countering illicit drug trade. In March 2017, at the sixtieth session of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs, Belarus planned to introduce a draft resolution on strengthening the role of the family to prevent drug use among children and teenagers and hoped that the initiative would be met with broad support.
66. Mr. Al Muhairi (United Arab Emirates) said that the world drug problem had worsened; the number of drug users had increased, and new, more dangerous manufactured drugs had emerged. Drugs had become weapons in the hands of terrorist groups and were used to control young people and finance illicit activities. The international community must therefore continue to work together to protect societies and prevent youth from falling prey to traffickers and smugglers. National resources should be dedicated to promoting development and ensuring the welfare of citizens in a safe, stable and healthy society. Knowledge sharing was essential to the development of response mechanisms. In 2016, the United Arab Emirates had collaborated with other countries in the region to successfully intercept large amounts of drugs and narcotics. The Government had also implemented a number of controlled delivery operations in collaboration with destination countries and had taken part in an emergency meeting of heads of drug control agencies convened by the Gulf Cooperation Council to align plans and enhance coordination to counter and monitor drug trafficking organizations.
67. A number of prevention programmes had been established, targeting students in schools and universities in an effort to instil good citizenship and help them to resist bad behaviour. Treatment and rehabilitation programmes were provided to drug users,
16-17327
13/19
A/C.3/71/SR.5
with assurances of privacy. The United Arab Emirates fully honoured its commitments under all international drug-related conventions and would continue to work with Member States to address the drug problem and all of its dangerous consequences.
68. Mr. Rabi (Morocco) said that the special session and its outcome document would allow the international community to begin a new phase in the fight against drugs, which required concrete action, specific responses and an operational roadmap to address shared concerns. National and international strategies must be updated to meet the evolving challenges of the drug problem in the face of the growing drug culture, increased trafficking and consumption of drugs and the emergence of new psychoactive substances and new methods of consumption propelled by the Internet. The challenge of protecting societies and States from the devastating consequences of drugs was shared by all, and the international community therefore had an obligation to face it together.
69. Given its geographical position, Morocco was constantly faced with the problem of drug trafficking, compounded in recent years by the activities of transnational criminal organizations, which transported drugs across Africa through terrorist networks and insurrection movements , thereby threatening the peace and stability of much of the Sahel-Sahara region. The Government of Morocco dedicated significant financial and human resources to combating the criminal networks involved in smuggling and trafficking and to monitoring and controlling the country's borders and coastline.
70. Recently, the national security service and customs had undertaken clean-up operations in the Guerguerat area to put an end to smuggling and illicit trafficking. That operation had led to the confiscation of over 600 vehicles, thereby clearing the region of all forms of illicit trafficking and traffickers. In addition, the National Security Directorate had dismantled an international drug trafficking network with ties to members of the Frente Polisario. Four of its members had been arrested, including the son of the so -called Minister of Development of the pseudo-Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic, and 500 kg of drugs intended to be smuggled across the eastern border had been seized. The four had admitted to being part of a vast
international drug trafficking network working along several channels between Morocco, Mauritania, Mali and areas under Frente Polisario control, thereby clearly establishing a link between drug traffickers in the Frente Polisario and active terrorist groups in northern Mali. One of the accused admitted to transporting several large shipments of drugs, receiving up to € 160,000 per tonne in return, and had implicated officials of the Frente Polisario in drug trafficking. Those official had accepted sizable bribes in exchange for impunity for the many criminals operating in the territory controlled by the Frente Polisario.
71. The Government of Morocco was firmly committed to combating the production, trafficking and consumption of drugs, as well as addictive behaviour, and had adopted a comprehensive, balanced strategy based on prevention, care and combating trafficking and trafficking networks. Policies were designed to prevent addictive behaviour and targeted both the supply and demand of illicit products. The long-term goals of the plan of action were to progressively eradicate drug culture, encourage prevention and awareness, provide healthcare for drug users, implement alternative development programmes and reinforce regional and international cooperation.
72. Mr. Sobral Duarte (Brazil) said that, in regard to crime prevention and criminal justice, preventive policies, especially those that promoted social and economic development, respect for human rights and access to justice, should be central elements of strategies for crime control. Public policies aimed at eradicating poverty, improving education and health, empowering women and combating all forms of discrimination were essential for crime prevention, and in order to be effective, they must be elaborated and implemented with the participation of civil society.
73. Special attention must be paid to crimes against refugees. Brazil welcomed the recently adopted New York Declaration for Refugees and Migrants, which recognized the vulnerabilities of those groups, particularly women and children. International cooperation should be further enhanced to prevent and combat unlawful practices that targeted refugees and migrants, such as human trafficking, modern slavery and sexual exploitation, and policies should be mindful of the victims' needs and perspectives. The nomination of Nadia Murad Basee Taha as Goodwill Ambassador
14/19
16-17327
A/C.3/71/SR.5
for the dignity of survivors of human trafficking drew special attention to the issue.
74. Adequate and effective punishment was essential to preventing and combatting crime, yet no crime warranted the application of the death penalty. The death penalty was not an appropriate instrument for public security policies, since there was no empirical evidence establishing a causal link between that penalty and effective crime control. Brazil encouraged all countries that still enforced the death penalty to adopt an immediate moratorium with a view to its abolition and called upon all Member States to constructively engage in the review of the relevant draft resolution.
75. With regard to international drug control, the Government was fully committed to the implementation of the outcome document of the special session, which acknowledged that drug-related policies must focus primarily on health and well -being and be formulated and implemented on the basis of scientific evidence, and take into account women and vulnerable groups.
76. Brazil looked forward to working with Member States to ensure a successful review of the resolution on international cooperation against the world drug problem, which was a fundamental step in the debate that would set the stage for the upcoming review of the Political Declaration and Plan of Action in 2019.
77. Ms. Mwangi (Kenya) said that illicit drugs continued to present adverse health, environmental and socioeconomic effects, undermining security and development in developing nations such as Kenya. The Government had undertaken significant policy measures to effectively coordinate and implement its national drug control strategy. In 2015, it had revised the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Control) Act and strengthened the mandate of the National Authority for the Campaign against Alcohol and Drug Abuse. As a member of the Eastern Africa Police Chiefs Cooperation Organization and the Eastern and Southern Africa Anti-Money Laundering Group, Kenya worked to facilitate information sharing, counter transnational crimes and stem the proliferation of small arms and light weapons. The Proceeds of Crime and Anti-money-laundering Act, enacted in 2012, had established the Financial Reporting Centre to identify the proceeds of crime, money-laundering
and financing of terrorism. An advisory committee had been established under the Counter-trafficking in Persons Act to coordinate the efforts of key stakeholders. The Anti-corruption and Economic Crimes Act had established the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission. Additional laws were in place to protect victims of human trafficking, witnesses and whistle-blowers.
78. Despite those efforts, challenges still remained. The Government had heavily invested resources to combat transnational organized crime, which diverted much-needed resources from national development. Kenya's porous borders were exploited by human and drug traffickers, and the proliferation of small arms and light weapons continued to empower terrorists and foment insecurity. The Indian Ocean was increasingly used by criminal networks as a transit route for illicit drugs, such as heroin and new psychoactive substances. Illicit trade in environmental resources and wildlife, especially in ivory and rhinoceros horns, had damaged biodiversity and devastated and endangered wildlife populations.
79. The Government of Kenya stressed the importance of effective subregional, regional and international cooperation through information sharing, joint investigations, mutual legal assistance and extradition in order to tackle the problems faced by transit countries. Support from UNODC and other partners had significantly enhanced national capacity to counter trafficking along borders and entry points and to address the drug problem and other transnational organized crimes. The international community must scale up resource mobilization for the delivery of technical assistance and capacity-building, particularly for developing countries.
80. Ms. Sabja (Plurinational State of Bolivia) said that her country had attained political and financial autonomy in the fight against drug trafficking, demonstrating that it was possible to combat drug trafficking with its own financial resources and international commitments, and without conditions or impositions, military bases, the United States Drug Enforcement Administration or the shared responsibility of some drug-consuming countries.
81. The amount of land devoted to coca growing in Bolivia had been reduced by 35 per cent between 2011 and 2015 to a total area of 20,200 hectares, according to UNODC, and was now at its lowest level in
16-17327
15/19
A/C.3/71/SR.5
10 years. That reduction, the highest in the region, had been achieved with full respect for human rights and the environment and without any bloodshed, thanks to dialogue and a consultative approach, the delimitation of legal coca growing areas, the non-use of aerial fumigation or chemicals and with the participation of coca producers themselves. In the past 10 years, under President Evo Morales, cocaine seizures in Bolivia had tripled. In 2016, 121 tonnes of drugs had been seized in 7,000 operations. Despite those tangible results, and the recognition by the international community of the country's efforts to combat drug trafficking, in 2016 the United States Government had criticized those efforts, for purely political reasons unrelated to the issue.
82. At the seventeenth Summit of Heads of State or Government of the Non-Aligned Movement, leaders had vigorously condemned the action taken by the United States under its Transnational Drug Trafficking Act of 2015, which included the implementation of extraterritorial measures, in violation of the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter. Chewing the coca leaf was an ancestral practice of the indigenous peoples of the Amazon and part of the history and cultural identity of Bolivia. In order to defend that tradition, the Government sought multilateral and bilateral cooperation with friendly organizations and States that respected the country's sovereignty and human rights. The Government reiterated its firm political will to combat drug trafficking and illicit coca plantations and to apply the measures set forth in the Political Declaration and Plan of Action.
83. Mr. Qassem Agha (Syrian Arab Republic) said that his country was facing atrocious crimes and cruel and inhumane terrorism, based on an extremist Wahhabist ideology that glorified killing children, women and the elderly and rejected balanced ideologies. That ideology, which constituted a violation of the law, was supported by a group of armed criminals that had been formed and protected by States Members of the United Nations that pretended to have Syria's best interest at heart. Those terrorist groups conducted numerous criminal activities, including trafficking in persons, massacres of unarmed civilians and slavery of women and children. They targeted intellectuals and religious leaders and systematically destroyed and pillaged Syrian cultural heritage. The
archaeologist Khaled al-Asaad had been murdered after Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) had destroyed the temple in Palmyra, a cultural crime that embodied the terrorist ideology of ISIL and the Al-Nusra Front, who targeted churches and historic monuments in order to destroy the past and terrorize innocents. The terrorists responsible for the destruction of monuments in Iraq and Syria, along with the Turkish intermediaries who facilitated pillaged goods being sold on European markets, must be punished. He called on the States supporting those mercenaries to respect their international commitments and adhere to Security Council resolutions 1624 (2005), 2170 (2014) and 2178 (2014) by ensuring effective border controls and preventing the provision of financial support to those murderous criminals.
84. Terrorism was a crime that impacted all countries, and yet, the most egregious crimes were the policies of those States that opened their borders to terrorists and provided them with financial support and weapons. Humanitarian aid from Europe, Australia and other States was even used to transport arms for those terrorists. Massive numbers of Syrians who had been subjugated by terrorists were fleeing the irrational fatwas of those jihadists. The fatwas had played an important role in organized crime, in human trafficking, and in transnational crime, in organ trafficking on the borders. The humanitarian situation of hundreds of families had made them vulnerable to those crimes, perpetrated under the guise of humanitarian aid, while Syria's neighbours remained suspiciously silent.
85. Archbishop Auza (Observer for the Holy See) said that the Holy See strongly shared the determination of the international community to tackle the world drug problem and actively promote a society free of drug abuse, in which all people could lead healthy lives, enjoy peace and live in social harmony. Drug trafficking and production obeyed the laws of supply and demand; drug trafficking existed because there was a lucrative market created by individuals addicted to illicit drugs. Preventing and fighting the consumption was key to preventing and fighting their production and trafficking. The Holy See was opposed to legalizing drug use as a means to fight drug addiction. The fight against drugs should be guided by the fundamental principles of respect for human dignity, of the primacy of prevention and the role of
16/19
16-17327
A/C.3/71/SR.5
the family as a bulwark for both drug prevention and addiction treatment.
86. Respect for the human dignity of all must be at the core of every international drug control and crime prevention strategy. Drug addicts must be treated with compassion and understanding. Numerous Catholic organizations and religious orders were active both in the fields of prevention and rehabilitation. Preventive measures started with educating children and young people to help them reject the temptation of illusionary bliss from drug consumption and the lure of easy money from drug trafficking.
87. The suffering of a drug addict engulfed the family and society as a whole. The Holy See strongly emphasized the importance of the family as the cornerstone of prevention, treatment, rehabilitation, reintegration and health strategies. Illicit drug abuse destroyed the social fabric of individual families and led ultimately to the destabilization of civil society. In addition, the Holy See supported programmes aimed at preventing risk factors by strengthening parenting skills.
88. Mr. Barkan (Israel) said that the unique needs and special challenges of women struggling with drug abuse were often overlooked, since most drug users were men. Gender-sensitive approaches to drug treatment were therefore crucial to successful recovery, and the outcome document of the special session had called for mainstreaming gender perspectives in drug related policies and programmes. In Israel, separate treatment infrastructures had been developed for women because recovery in facilities serving both men and women could be difficult for female drug abusers who were also victims of sexual abuse, violence and trauma. The comprehensive treatment approach employed by Israel included trauma counselling and support, family and group therapy and other tools to cope with the issues faced by women, such as prostitution and motherhood. Facilities were also taking steps to create a separate space to provide women with additional opportunities to work, enjoy recreational activities and receive treatment apart from men. In addition, recovery centres had been established for young women and girls, including an ambulatory centre, residential centre, special clinics, post treatment recovery hostels, harm reduction programmes and inpatient detox units.
89. Israel was committed to sharing its experiences with other countries. In partnership with Israel's Anti-Drug Authority and UNODC, the Agency for International Development Cooperation under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs hosted courses related to alcohol and drugs. The most recent course had focused on gender specific policies and programmes. The inclusion of a gender perspective in the fight against drug abuse was fundamental to ensuring equality for women. Women affected by drug abuse were more vulnerable, faced greater social stigma, were less likely to enter treatment programmes and had fewer opportunities to seek assistance and reintegration into society.
90. Ms. Naeem (Maldives) said that globalization, information technology, international travel and transnational enterprises had advanced international efforts to address transnational and organized crime but had also allowed criminals greater flexibility and the opportunity to broaden their areas of operation.
91. Organized crime, such as drug trafficking, trafficking in persons and money-laundering, was a constant threat for the Maldives, a geographically dispersed island nation on one of the leading maritime trade routes. As a party to the Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and its supporting Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children, the Maldives had taken a number of significant steps towards its implementation. The Government had adopted laws to provide law enforcement authorities with the means to effectively combat trafficking of persons, money-laundering and terrorism financing. The national counter-terrorism centre, established in 2016, was designated the nodal agency to coordinate counter-terrorism efforts. The national strategy to counter violent extremism was based on moderate and progressive Islamic teachings, the empowerment of women and youth and increased preventive intervention by law enforcement and concerned government agencies. Safeguarding the tourism industry and tourists from terrorist attacks was also an important area of focus, and programmes were already underway to increase awareness of soft target security and enhance response mechanisms.
92. Measures adopted at the domestic level alone did not enable the Government to combat crimes
16-17327
17/19
A/C.3/71/SR.5
effectively. The Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters Act, enacted in 2014, allowed the Maldives to cooperate with other States and international organizations to provide mutual legal assistance in relation to criminal offenses, including organized crime.
93. Without a fair, transparent and effective criminal justice system, efforts to combat crime would not be effectively realized. A comprehensive criminal procedure code had been enacted in 2016, paving the way for the guaranteed right to a fair trial by a competent, independent and impartial tribunal as established by law, equal access to justice with due process safeguards and the right to consult an attorney and an interpreter where needed. National drug policies and laws, underpinned by the principles of human rights and by a firm conviction for the need to b uild safer and just societies, not only provided stringent measures to combat drug trafficking, but also placed a strong emphasis on reintegrating drug dependent persons into society.
94. Mr. Li Zhiqiang (China) said that States must effectively implement the Doha Declaration of the thirteenth United Nations Congress on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice and intensify efforts to respond to new crimes, such as cybercrime and transnational telecom fraud. The Government of China supported the Group of Governmental Experts on Developments in the Field of Information and Telecommunications in the Context of International Security in carrying out its mandate and actively exploring the possibility of developing an international legal instrument within the framework of the United Nations to combat cybercrime. The Government also supported efforts to address wildlife crimes and illicit trafficking in cultural property.
95. States must have a zero-tolerance approach to corruption, effectively implement the Convention against Corruption, reinforce bilateral and multilateral cooperation and assistance, eliminate the political and legal obstacles to apprehending fugitives and recovering ill-gotten assets across borders and refuse to become havens for the corrupt and their assets. The implementation review mechanism of the Convention was a useful platform for promoting its implementation, exchanging experiences and strengthening capacity building. In the second review cycle, all parties should
strictly follow the principles and rules of the review mechanism, including respect for the sovereignty of the States parties and non-interference in national affairs. While non-governmental organizations had a role to play at the domestic level, the review mechanism should remain an intergovernmental process. As the current President of the Group of 20, China had advocated for the G-20 High-Level Principles on Cooperation on Persons Sought for Corruption and Asset Recovery and the G-20 Anti-Corruption Action Plan 2017-2018.
96. China looked forward to the eighth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime. States should take proactive steps to apply the Convention, using it as a legal basis for judicial assistance, extradition and cooperation in recovering ill-gotten assets. An appropriate implementation review mechanism was needed, and the model, principles and experience of the review mechanism of the Convention against Corruption should be taken as a reference. The review mechanism should also uphold the intergovernmental, non-invasive and non-punishing nature of other reviews and prioritize international cooperation, recovery of assets and technical assistance.
97. In upcoming years, the international community should focus drug control efforts on implementing the outcome document of the special session. The Government of China supported the international drug control system based on the three international drug conventions and opposed legalizing drugs in any way. It also supported the work of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs, UNODC and the International Narcotics Control Board. Drug control policies should not only safeguard and promote human rights, but also take into consideration the peace and security, wellbeing and common interests of society as a whole. States were entitled to formulate those policies, including criminal justice policies, as best suited their specific national circumstances.
98. Mr. Lambertini (Italy) said that the international community recognized that effective crime prevention and criminal justice were fundamental to peace and development and to the realization of human rights. International declarations and programmatic documents stated that human rights policies should
18/19
16-17327
A/C.3/71/SR.5
complement actions to counter criminal activities, which heightened tensions and accentuated divisions to the detriment of the least fortunate, draining public resources and violating fundamental rights and freedoms.
99. Italy would once again facilitate the resolution on crime prevention and criminal justice in order to strengthen international cooperation in the fight against transnational organized crime. In 2015, Italy had coordinated with Jordan on a project to protect cultural heritage and had discovered that much remained to be done in order to transform the resolutions adopted by the international community into concrete, coordinated and effective actions. Similar shortcomings could also be found in efforts to combat trafficking in persons, drug trafficking, the arms trade, terrorist propaganda and the recruitment and sexual exploitation of children, youth and women. The contributions of all Member States would help to improve the resolution and ensure that it did a better job of pinpointing responses to illegal activities, taking into account the recent work done by organizations based in Vienna and Geneva, the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime, the Convention against Corruption and the special session.
The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m.
16-17327
19/19