United Nations
A/C.3/68/SR.55
General Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
Official Records
Distr.: General 14 August 2014
Original: English
Third Committee
Summary record of the 55th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Wednesday, 18 June 2014, at 5.10 p.m.
Chair: Mr. Tafrov (Bulgaria)
Contents
Agenda item 5: Election of the officers of the Main Committees
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Control Unit (srcorrections@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
13-11807 (E)
III III I II 11HH1
Please recycle
A/C.3/68/SR.55
The meeting was called to order at 5.10p.m.
Agenda item 5: Election of the officers of the Main Committees
1. The Chair said that, in accordance with rule 99 (a) of the rules of procedure, the meeting had been convened for the purpose of electing the Chair and other members of the Bureau for the sixty-ninth session of the General Assembly.
2. The nomination of Ms. Mesquita Borges (TimorLeste) for the office of Chair had been endorsed by the Group of Asia-Pacific States. In the absence of further nominations, and in accordance with rule 103 of the rules of procedure, he would take it that the Committee wished to elect Ms. Mesquita Borges (Timor-Leste) Chair.
3. Ms. Mesquita Borges (Timor-Leste) was elected Chair by acclamation.
4. Ms. Mesquita Borges (Timor-Leste) said that she looked forward to the support of delegations in conducting the business of the Committee with a view to ensuring that human rights for all were upheld.
5. The Chair said that the nominations of Mr. Davis (Jamaica), Mr. Faye (Senegal) and Ms. Nilsson (Sweden) for the three offices of Vice-Chair had been endorsed by the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States, the Group of African States and the Group of Western European and Other States, respectively.
6. Mr. Davis (Jamaica), Mr. Faye (Senegal), and Ms. Nilsson (Sweden) were elected Vice-Chairs by acclamation.
7. The Chair said that the nomination of Mr. Nina (Albania) for the office of Rapporteur had been endorsed by the Group of Eastern European States.
8. Mr. Nina (Albania) was elected Rapporteur by acclamation.
The meeting rose at 5.20p.m.
2/2
13-11807