United Nations
A/C.3/53/SR.2
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
Official Records
Distr.: General 21 September 1998
Original: English
Third Committee
Summary record of the 2nd meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Wednesday, 16 September 1998, at 10 a.m.
Chairman: Mr. Hachani (Tunisia)
Contents
Statement by the Chairman Election of officers Organization of work
This record is subject to correction. Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned within one week of the date ofpublication to the Chief of the Official Records Editing Section, room DC2-750, 2 United Nations Plaza, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session, in a separate corrigendum for each Committee.
98-81399 (E)
A/C.3/53/SR.2
The meeting was called to order at 10.35 a.m.
Statement by the Chairman
1. The Chairman said that the Committee's work at the current session would be inspired by the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, a document which had made the ideal of human rights the highest priority of the international community. Although the celebration would take place mainly in the plenary meetings, it would provide an opportunity to reaffirm the commitments made to the protection and promotion of human rights in their entirety. It should encourage renewed efforts to achieve progress in other closely linked fields such as social development, the advancement of women, the rights of the child, the right to self-determination and the situation of refugees. At the same time, the question of human rights would have no meaning if the right to life, to a decent standard of living and to a homeland were relegated to second place.
Election of officers
2. The Chairman said that the Group of Western European and Other States, the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States, and the Group of Eastern European States, had nominated Mr. Ball (New Zealand), Mr. Carranza (Guatemala) and Ms. Sandru (Romania), respectively, for the offices of Vice-Chairman.
3. Mr. Ball (New Zealand), Mr. Carranza (Guatemala) and Ms. Sandru (Romania) were elected Vice-Chairmen by acclamation.
4. The Chairman said that the Group of Asian States had nominated Mr. Najem (Lebanon) for the office of Rapporteur.
5. Mr. Najem (Lebanon) was elected Rapporteur by acclamation.
Organization of work (A/53/250, A/C.3/53/L.1)
6. The Chairman drew attention to document A/C.3/53/L. 1 and to the action taken by the General Assembly based on the recommendations contained in the report of the General Committee (A/53/250), and pointed out that the General Assembly had decided to take up items 37 and 46 at plenary meetings. The target date for the conclusion of the Committee's work was Friday, 20 November. He would suspend the meeting to enable members of the Committee to hold an informal meeting.
The meeting was suspended at 10.45 a.m. and resumed at 11.10 a.m.
7. The Chairman said that he took it that the Committee wished to adopt the draft proposed programme of work contained in document A/C.3/53/L.1, as orally amended by the Secretary of the Committee during the informal meeting.
8. It was so decided.
9. The Chairman said that he took it that the Committee agreed to a time limit of seven minutes for statements by individual delegations and members of the Secretariat, and 15 minutes for statements by spokesmen of groups of delegations.
10. It was so decided.
11. The Chairman said that he took it that the Committee wished to invite the Rapporteurs and Special Representatives to present their reports to the Committee during the current session.
12. It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 11.20 a.m.
2