United Nations
A/C.3/70/SR.56
General Assembly
Seventieth session
Official Records
Distr.: General 13 January 2016
Original: English
Third Committee
Summary record of the 56th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Wednesday, 25 November 2015, at 10 a.m.
Chair: Mr. Dempsey (Vice-Chair) (Canada)
Contents
Agenda item 72: Promotion and protection of human rights (continued)
(b) Human rights questions, including alternative approaches for improving the effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms (continued)
Agenda item 120: Revitalization of the work of the General Assembly (continued)
Conclusion of the work of the Committee
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Control Unit (srcorrections@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
15-20822 (E)
in in 11 iirnwmwv
Please recycle
A/C.3/70/SR.56
In the absence of Mr. Hilale (Morocco), Chair, Mr Dempsey (Canada), Vice-Chair, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.30 a.m.
Agenda item 72: Promotion and protection of human rights (continued)
(b) Human rights questions, including alternative approaches for improving the effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms (continued) (A/C.3/70/L.46/Rev.1, A/C.3/70/L.69, A/C.3/70/L.70, A/C.3/70/L.71, A/C.3/70/L.72, A/C.3/70/L.73, A/C.3/70/L.74, A/C.3/70/L.75, A/C.3/70/L.76, A/C.3/70/L.77, A/C.3/70/L.78, A/C.3/70/L.79, A/C.3/70/L.80, A/C.3/70/L.81, A/C.3/70/L.82, A/C.3/70/L.83, A/C.3/70/L.84, A/C.3/70/L.85, A/C.3/70/L.86, A/C.3/70/L.87, A/C.3/70/L.88, A/C.3/70/L.89, A/C.3/70/L.90, A/C.3/70/L.91, A/C.3/70/L.92, A/C.3/70/L.93, A/C.3/70/L.94, A/C.3/70/L.95, A/C.3/70/L.96, A/C.3/70/L.97, A/C.3/70/L.98, A/C.3/70/L.99, A/C.3/70/L.100, A/C.3/70/L.101, A/C.3/70/L. 102, A/C.3/70/L.103, A/C.3/70/L.104, A/C.3/70/L. 105, A/C.3/70/L.106 and A/C.3/70/L. 107)
Draft resolution A/C. 3/70/L.46/Rev. 1: Recognizing the role of human rights defenders and the need for their protection
1. The Chair said that the draft resolution had no programme budget implications.
2. Mr. Sj0berg (Norway) said that the General Assembly had, at previous sessions, expressed grave concerns about threats and acts of intimidation against human rights defenders. In that context, the international community must send a clear message in support of the important and legitimate role of human rights defenders in the promotion and human rights, democracy and the rule of law. Governments must ensure that all citizens, including human rights defenders, were able to enjoy their right to non discrimination. National policies and laws should not impede the exercise of human rights but rather establish a safe and enabling environment for the work of human rights defenders.
3. He read out a number of oral revisions that had been made to the text in response to the proposed amendments contained in documents A/C.3/70/L.69 to A/C.3/70/L.107. To address draft amendment
A/C.3/70/L.69, the title of the draft resolution should be changed to “Human Rights Defenders in the context of the Declaration on the Right and Responsibility of Individuals, Groups and Organs of Society to Promote and Protect Universally Recognized Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms”. To address draft amendment A/C.3/70/L.70, the worlds “full and appropriate” should be deleted from the sixth preambular paragraph. To address draft amendment A/C.3/70/L.71, the phrase “relevant provisions of international human rights law” in the tenth preambular paragraph should be amended to read “the obligations and commitments of States under international human rights law”. To address draft amendment A/C.3/70/L.72, the phrase “legislation to hinder or limit” in the fourteenth preambular paragraph should be replaced by the phrase “legislation which hinders or limits”. To address draft amendment A/C.3/70/L.73, the fifteenth preambular paragraph should be amended by inserting the words “allegations and” before the word “communications”, replacing the words “documenting the” with the words “of a” and deleting the word “deplorable”.
4. To address draft amendment A/C.3/70/L.74, the phrase “that human rights defenders are subject to attacks” in the sixteenth preambular paragraph should be replaced by “about incidents of human rights defenders being subjected to attacks”. To address draft amendment A/C.3/70/L.75, the seventeenth preambular paragraph should be amended by deleting the words “recognize and”, and by inserting the phrase “the obligations and commitments of States under” before the words “international human rights law”. To address draft amendment A/C.3/70/L.76, the word “determined” should be replaced by the word “recognizing” in the eighteenth preambular paragraph and, in the same paragraph, the phrase “the obligations and commitments of States under” should be inserted before words “international human rights law”. To address draft amendment A/C.3/70/L.77, the phrase “including in the context of promoting the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development” should be deleted from the twentieth preambular paragraph.
5. To address draft amendment A/C.3/70/L.80, the phrase “takes note with appreciation of the reports” in paragraph 3 should be replaced by “takes note of the report A/70/217”. To address draft amendment A/C.3/70/L.81, paragraph 4 should be amended by inserting the words “individuals, groups and organs of
2/9
15-20822
A/C.3/70/SR.56
society, including” after the words “role of”, deleting the words “unequivocally and”, and inserting the phrase “underlining that such practices can never be justified” at the end of the paragraph. To address draft amendment A/C.3/70/L.82, the words “killing and thus silencing of human rights defenders” in paragraph 5 should be replaced by “and killing of any individuals, including human rights defenders”. To address draft amendment A/C.3/70/L.83, the phrase “individuals and groups” in paragraph 6 should be replaced by the words “individuals, groups and organs of society”. To address draft amendment A/C.3/70/L.84, the words “and promote” should be inserted after the word “respect” in paragraph 7.
6. To address draft amendment A/C.3/70/L.85, the words “Calls upon States to take concrete steps to prevent and put an end to arbitrary arrest and detention of human rights defenders, and in this regard” should be inserted at the beginning of paragraph 8. That paragraph should be further amended by inserting the words “the obligations and commitments of States under” after the words “in violation of” and by deleting the phrase “and demands that States take concrete and definitive steps to prevent and put an end to the practice of the arbitrary arrest and detention of human rights defenders”. To address draft amendment A/C.3/70/L.86, the world “defence” should replace the word “realization” in the chapeau of paragraph 10. To address draft amendment A/C.3/70/L.87, the words “the obligations and commitments of States under” should be inserted before the words “international human rights law” in paragraph 10 (a). To address draft amendment A/C.3/70/L.88, the words “relevant provisions of international human rights law” in paragraph 10 (b) should be replaced by the words “the obligations and commitments of States under international human rights law”. To address draft amendment A/C.3/70/L.89, paragraph 10 (c) should be amended by replacing the phrase “hinder the work and safety of” with the phrase “jeopardize the safety of or arbitrarily hinder the work of” and by inserting the phrase “while clearly identifying which offences qualify as terrorist acts by defining transparent and foreseeable criteria” after the words “defending human rights”.
7. To address draft amendment A/C.3/70/L.90, the words “and that such national provisions” in paragraph 10 (d) should be replaced by “with national legislation”. To address draft amendment A/C.3/70/L.91, the words “avoid the use of” in
paragraph 10 (e) should be replaced by the word “eliminate”. To address draft amendment A/C.3/70/L.92, paragraph 10 (f) should be amended by deleting the phrase “including on grave violations of human rights,” inserting the phrase “such as evidence of serious violations of human rights” after the words “withheld from the public” and replacing the words “action-oriented” with the word “expedient”. To address draft amendment A/C.3/70/L.93, the words “threats against” in paragraph 10 (h) should be replaced by the word “intimidate”.
8. To address draft amendment A/C.3/70/L.79, a new paragraph 10 bis should be inserted with the following text: “Recognizes that, ‘in the exercise of the rights and freedoms referred to in the Declaration, human rights defenders, acting individually and in association with others, shall be subject only to such limitations as are in accordance with applicable international obligations and are determined by law solely for the purpose of securing due recognition and respect for the rights and freedoms of others and of meeting the just requirements of morality, public order and the general welfare in a democratic society'.” To address draft amendment A/C.3/70/L.94, the phrase “comprehensive and sustainable public policies and programmes” in paragraph 11 should be amended to read “sustainable public policies or programmes” and, in the same paragraph, the phrase “including their family members, associates and legal representatives” should be replaced by “in a comprehensive manner”.
9. To address draft amendment A/C.3/70/L.95,
paragraph 14 should be amended by deleting the phrase “renounce firmly all discrimination and violence, underlining that such practices can never be justified on any grounds”, the substance of which was contained in paragraph 4, and replacing it with the phrase “ensure that legislation does not target activities of individuals and associations defending the rights of persons belonging to minorities or espousing minority beliefs”. To address draft amendment A/C.3/70/L.96, the
words “Calls upon all States to take due note of” in paragraph 16 should be replaced by the words “ Takes note of '. To address draft amendment A/C.3/70/L.97, the word “some” should be deleted from paragraph 17. To address draft amendment A/C.3/70/L.99, the
words “Fulfil the duty to end impunity for any such” |in paragraph 18 (b) should be replaced by “End impunity for”.
15-20822
3/9
A/C.3/70/SR.56
10. To address draft amendment A/C.3/70/L.100, the word “measures” should be deleted from paragraph 18 (c). To address draft amendment A/C.3/70/L.101, the phrase “guidelines and mechanisms for their protection” in paragraph 19 should be amended to read “measures for their protection, inter alia, by”. To address draft amendment A/C.3/70/L.102, the phrase “important role of human rights defenders, including women human rights defenders, and the legitimacy of their work, and to condemn publicly any cases of violence and discrimination against human rights defenders, including women human rights defenders” in paragraph 20 should be amended to read “important and legitimate role of human rights defenders in society, including women human rights defenders, and, in any cases of violence and discrimination against them, to take a clear stance in rejection of such practices”.
11. To address draft amendment A/C.3/70/L.103, paragraph 21 should be amended by replacing the phrase “business enterprises” with the phrase “all business enterprises, both transnational and others”, deleting the words “life, liberty and security of person, and their exercise of their rights to” and inserting the phrase “and underlines the importance of accountability, including of all business enterprises, both transnational and others, and including their provision of, or cooperation in, remediation” at the end of the paragraph. To address draft amendment A/C.3/70/L.104, a new paragraph 22 supra should be inserted with the following text: “ Underlines the value of national human rights institutions, established and operating in accordance with the Paris Principles, in the continued monitoring of existing legislation and consistently informing the State about its impact on the activities of human rights defenders, including by making relevant and concrete recommendations”, and the words “and their legal representatives, associates and family members” in paragraph 22 should be replaced by the words “in a comprehensive manner”.
12. To address draft amendment A/C.3/70/L.105, paragraph 23 should be amended by inserting the phrase “within their respective mandates” after the words “special procedures”, the word “technical” before the word “assistance” and the phrase “the obligations and commitments of States under” before the words “international human rights law”. To address draft amendment A/C.3/70/L.106, the phrase “its call
upon States with respect to responding favourably” in paragraph 26 should be amended to read “its call upon States to give favourable consideration”. Lastly, to address draft amendment A/C.3/70/L.107, paragraph 27 should be amended by replacing the words “his activities” with the words “his or her activities”, replacing the words “his mandate” with “the mandate”, inserting the phrase “and invites the Special Rapporteur to take into account progress on the present resolution in his or her reporting” at the end of the paragraph and deleting paragraph 28 in its entirety.
13. Mr. Fawundu (Sierra Leone), speaking as the main sponsor of the draft amendments on behalf of the Group of African States, withdrew the proposed amendments to draft resolution A/C.3/70/L.46/Rev.1.
14. Mr. Khane (Secretary of the Committee) said that Andorra, Austria, Belgium, Benin, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Costa Rica, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, El Salvador, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Italy, Latvia, Liberia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Maldives, Malta, Monaco, Montenegro, Morocco, Netherlands, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Tunisia, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Uruguay had joined the sponsors.
15. Mr. Clyne (New Zealand), speaking also on behalf of Australia, Canada, Iceland, Liechtenstein and Switzerland, said that the work of human rights defenders was vital to the promotion and respect of human rights and democratic processes, the establishment and maintenance of peace and security and the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Those delegations were deeply concerned that, despite the adoption of the Declaration on the Right and Responsibility of Individuals, Groups and Organs of Society to Promote and Protect Universally Recognized Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the situation of human rights defenders was seriously deteriorating in law in and in practice in many countries. States must fully implement the resolution in order to address the challenges faced by human rights defenders and to demonstrate the value that the international community placed on their courageous and constructive work.
4/9
15-20822
A/C.3/70/SR.56
16. It was regrettable that a large number of amendments to the draft resolution had been proposed despite extensive informal negotiations and the presentation of a revised draft that had addressed many of the concerns expressed. The Committee should consider how it could conduct its work in a more constructive and productive manner in future. It was deeply regrettable that certain delegations had determined not to support the important work of human rights defenders and the fundamental principle that they should not be subject to violent intimidation and attacks.
17. It was unfortunate that certain elements that would have further set out the responsibilities of States towards human rights defenders had been removed from the final version of the draft resolution. However, the text contained important new elements, including the references to the family members, associates and legal representatives of human rights defenders, the clear condemnation of all acts of intimidation and reprisal, the paragraph on the registration and funding of civil society organizations and the call for States to put an end to arbitrary arrest and detention of human rights defenders. Upholding human rights was intrinsic to the obligations of sovereignty.
18. Mr. Ruidiaz Perez (Chile) said that Chile continued to promote and defend the contribution of civil society and to underscore the duty of States to promote the creation and maintenance, in law and in practice, of a safe and enabling environment for civil society. The report of the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders (A/70/217) had confirmed that threats against human rights defenders and reprisals against those cooperating with the United Nations or regional mechanisms were increasing. That situation was compounded by social and media indifference and the impunity often enjoyed by perpetrators.
19. The draft resolution rightly encouraged all States, non-State actors and leaders in all sectors of society to reject violence and discrimination against human rights defenders, with a view to raising awareness of the unacceptability of such practices. It also called on States to repeal legislation that was discriminatory or unduly hindered the work of human rights defenders; ensure respect for the right to freedom of expression, peaceful assembly and association; and release persons detained or imprisoned in violation of the human rights obligations of States. For those reasons, his delegation strongly supported the draft resolution.
20. Mr. Sj0berg (Norway) said that while Governments may not always agree with the views of human rights defenders, the ability of the latter to work in safety and without fear of retaliation was an essential element in building and maintaining sustainable, open and democratic societies. Human rights defenders faced particular threats and thus had a particular need for protection. The draft resolution did not create new rights or privileges for human rights defenders but rather provided the means to ensure that they were able to enjoy the same rights as the rest of society. Delegations that abstained from voting on the current draft resolution would be viewed as failing to recognize the role of human rights defenders and the need for their protection.
21. Ms. Cedeno Rengifo (Panama), speaking also on behalf of Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Paraguay, Peru and Uruguay, said that it was of the utmost importance that States should recognize and protect human rights defenders who, along with their family members, were often subject to reprisals, defamation or smear campaigns and attempts on their lives. States had a duty to create a safe and enabling environment for human rights defenders to carry out their work with dignity and in full enjoyment of their rights. She therefore urged States to enable full respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms by voting in favour of the draft resolution.
22. Mr. Yao Shaojun (China) said that his Government was committed to the promotion and protection of human rights, provided that actions in that regard did not violate national law. However, the draft resolution was problematic, as the term “human rights defender” had no universally agreed definition. Furthermore, all persons were entitled to the same human rights and fundamental freedoms. The statements by the main sponsor had clearly demonstrated that it was attempting to impose its view that so-called human rights defenders should be considered to have special rights or legal status upon other Member States.
23. Governments bore the primary responsibility for the promotion and protection of the human rights of their peoples, which could only be achieved by ensuring domestic peace and social stability. No one should be allowed to break the law, endanger the interests of the majority of the population and disrupt public order while claiming protection as a human
15-20822
5/9
A/C.3/70/SR.56
rights defender. As explicitly stated in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the exercise of certain rights was subject to certain restrictions as provided by law and as necessary to ensure respect for the rights or reputations of others and for the protection of national security, public order, public health or public morals. The only way to truly promote and protect human rights was through reasonable legislation and strict law enforcement: any violation of national law was a violation of the will and rights of the majority of the people and should therefore be sanctioned under the law.
24. His delegation had participated actively in the informal negotiations on the draft resolution and had proposed a number of amendments. While the main sponsor had made a symbolic gesture in response, the key elements of the Chinese proposals had not been accepted. Moreover, in recent years certain Western countries had pursued their own citizens for attempting to promote and protect human rights, driving some of them to seek asylum in other countries, while simultaneously citing the need to protect so -called human rights defenders as an excuse for destabilizing and interfering in the internal affairs of developing countries. China was concerned that the adoption of the draft resolution in its current form would further entrench the application of double standards and harm developing countries. For those reasons, China had no choice but to vote against the draft resolution.
25. Ms. Mozolina (Russian Federation) said that the Russian Federation attached great importance to the protection and promotion of human rights and was convinced that the subject of the rights and responsibilities of individuals and groups working in the sphere of human rights should be on the agenda of the Third Committee. Unfortunately, the authors of the draft resolution had not taken into account the majority of the proposed amendments that would have made the text more balanced. Furthermore, the negotiations had not been transparent and had only properly begun in recent days and nights with individual States and groups of countries rather than through open consultations. Such working methods on a resolution were not acceptable within the General Assembly.
26. Work on the text had been made difficult by the fact that there was no notion of human rights defenders in international law. Her delegation was alarmed by the authors' attempt to selectively and arbitrarily select language from the Declaration on the Right and
Responsibility of Individuals, Groups and Organs of Society to Promote and Protect Universally Recognized Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and make human rights defenders a separate category of individuals, granting them special collective rights and demanding separate protection measures for them. By dividing people into individual groups that supposedly required different levels of protection and even had different rights and freedoms, international human rights law could be undermined and weakened. Her delegation could not agree with such an approach to the issue of human rights defenders.
27. Ms. Smaila (Nigeria) said that Governments had the primary responsibility for defending human rights; all other actors must play secondary, complementary or supporting roles. The resolution made human rights actors and Governments antagonistic to each other, which was inimical to all the substantive human rights instruments which relied heavily on Governments as first responders to and primary defenders of human rights. The international community should be wary of creating artificial dissension and dichotomy between civil society and Governments.
28. Her country had consented to the creation of independent human rights commissions that had the right to exercise unrestrained monitoring and reporting and operate an ombudsman system at the national level. It therefore saw little or no need for the draft resolution. If a draft resolution of that nature was to be considered in the near future, those positions must be recognized in the text. A draft resolution that sought to replace Governments as the primary defenders of human rights and substitute them with other entities could not in principle be adopted by consensus. The 1999 Constitution of Nigeria guaranteed the role of the State in promoting and enhancing human rights, while other actors could play complementary or supportive roles. Nigeria would vote against the resolution, because it created agents that were over and above the laws of States.
29. Mr. Khane (Secretary of the Committee) said that the draft resolution, as orally revised, had no programme budget implications.
30. At the request of the delegations of China and the Russian Federation, a recorded vote was taken on draft resolution A/C.3/70/L.46/Rev. 1, as orally revised.
6/9
15-20822
A/C.3/70/SR.56
In favour:
Afghanistan, Albania, Andorra, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Cabo Verde, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Estonia, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Gabon, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, San Marino, Senegal, Serbia, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Sudan, Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay.
Against:
Burundi, China, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Kenya, Myanmar, Nigeria, Pakistan, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Zimbabwe.
Abstaining:
Algeria, Angola, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Belarus, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Brunei Darussalam, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ecuador, Egypt, Eritrea, Fiji, Iraq, Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mali, Mauritania, Mozambique, Namibia, Nicaragua, Niger, Oman, Qatar, Swaziland, Tajikistan, Togo, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic
of Tanzania, Uzbekistan, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen.
31. Draft resolution A/C.3/70/L46/Rev. 1, as orally revised, was adopted by 117 votes to 14, with 40 abstentions.
32. Mr. Joshi (India) said that India, as a party to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, had undertaken an obligation at the international level to protect civil and political rights and progressively realize economic, social and cultural rights. The fundamental legal rights guaranteed by the Indian Constitution and relevant laws were equally available and applicable to all, including human rights defenders. India was of the view that the adoption of the resolution did not necessitate a new and separate domestic legal regime to protect human rights defenders. There was already a sufficient legislative and institutional framework in place in India that was available to all persons, including those that defended human rights.
33. Mr. Elbahi (Sudan) said that his Government was making every effort to protect and strengthen human rights for all its citizens without any exception for any individual or group, in order to fulfil its relevant international and regional commitments, as well as its national legislation on human rights. Although his delegation commended the efforts made to make the draft resolution more balanced, further work on the text was required in order to reflect the interests of all delegations and some of the concepts needed clarification, which was why his delegation had been obliged to vote against it.
34. Mr. Nguyen Duy Thanh (Viet Nam) said that Viet Nam shared the view that all individuals, groups and organs of society had a role to play in protecting and promoting universally recognized human rights, with States having the primary responsibility. However, his delegation had expressed concerns about the incorporation into the draft resolution of a number of unclear concepts that were still under discussion and had yet to enjoy common understanding among Member States, including the concept of so-called human rights defenders, and, as such, might be misinterpreted and misused. The lack of balance between the rights and obligations of so-called human rights defenders was another cause of concern. Although some of the proposed amendments had been accommodated by the
15-20822
7/9
A/C.3/70/SR.56
sponsor, his delegation's main concerns remained and it had thus abstained from the voting.
35. Mr. Maes (Luxembourg), speaking on behalf of the European Union, said that the European Union did not seek additional or special rights for human rights defenders. Equally, human rights defenders were not and must not be subject to additional responsibilities. It was the primary responsibility of States to protect all human rights and fundamental freedoms and States clearly had a responsibility under international human rights law to protect human rights defenders from violations and abuses. The European Union urged all States to create and maintain in law and practice a safe and enabling environment for human rights defenders. Some national laws were clearly inconsistent with international human rights law, which was not acceptable. Human rights defenders must be able to operate freely, with access to funding and resources, in order to carry out their important and legitimate work.
36. Ms. Brooke (United States of America) said that the United States welcomed the fact that the draft resolution addressed the threats faced by family members, friends, colleagues, legal representatives and supporters, and other associates of human rights defenders, who were far too commonly targeted with the same violence and discrimination as the defenders themselves.
37. States needed to combat impunity by ensuring that those responsible for violations and abuses against human rights defenders and their associates were promptly brought to justice through impartial investigations. It was also the responsibility of States to provide an enabling environment for human rights defenders and civil society. States must fully implement their human rights obligations, including those relating to non-discrimination, to be able to meet the responsibility to prevent threats, harassment and violence, including gender-based violence, against human rights defenders. The United Nations must act to prevent reprisals against human rights defenders who brought their concerns before United Nations mechanisms. Legislation on registration and funding of civil society organizations must be transparent, non discriminatory, expeditious and inexpensive, and allow for the possibility to appeal. Any relevant national legislation must comply with international human rights law.
38. The United States had longstanding and well known concerns about the term “right to development”, including the way it was used in paragraph 21. The right to development did not have an internationally agreed meaning. Paragraph 10 bis directly quoted article 17 of the Declaration on the Right and Responsibility of Individuals, Groups and Organs of Society to Promote and Protect Universally Recognized Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and, as such, did not create any new legal obligations.
39. The Chair, in accordance with General Assembly decision 55/488, proposed that the Committee should take note of, under sub-item (a) of agenda item 72, the report of the Committee against Torture (A/70/44), the report of the Secretary-General on the United Nations Voluntary Fund for Victims of Torture (A/70/223), the report of the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (A/70/55), the report of the Committee on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families (A/70/48), the report of the Secretary-General on the United Nations Voluntary Trust Fund on Contemporary Forms of Slavery (A/70/299), the note by the Secretary-General on the Special Fund established by the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment (A/70/273), the note by the Secretary General transmitting the annual report of the Chairs of the human rights treat bodies (A/70/302) and the note by the Secretary-General transmitting the eighth annual report of the Subcommittee on Prevention of Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment (A/70/425); under sub-item (b), the report of the Secretary-General on strengthening United Nations action in the field of human rights through the promotion of international cooperation and the importance of non-selectivity, impartiality and objectivity (A/70/258), the report of the SecretaryGeneral on the follow-up to the International Year of Human Rights Learning (A/70/166), the report of the Committee on Enforced Disappearances (A/70/56), the note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of the Working Group on the issue of human rights and transnational corporations and other business enterprises (A/70/216), the note by the SecretaryGeneral transmitting the report of the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders (A/70/217), the note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of the Special Rapporteur on the human rights of migrants (A/70/310), the note by the
8/9
15-20822
A/C.3/70/SR.56
Secretary-General transmitting the report of the Independent Expert on the effects of foreign debt and other related international financial obligations of States on the full enjoyment of all human rights, particularly economic, social and cultural rights (A/70/275), the note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of the Special Rapporteur on adequate housing as a component of the right to an adequate standard of living, and on the right to non discrimination in this context (A/70/270), the note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of the Special Rapporteur on the right to education (A/70/342), the note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of the Special Rapporteur on the promotion of truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-recurrence (A/70/438), the note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of the Special Rapporteur on extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions (A/70/304), the note by the SecretaryGeneral transmitting the report of the Special Rapporteur on the independence of judges and lawyers (A/70/263), the note by the Secretary-General
transmitting the report of the Special Rapporteur on the right of everyone to the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health (A/70/213), the note by the Secretary-General
transmitting the report of the Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of the right to freedom of opinion and expression (A/70/361), the note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of the Special Rapporteur on extreme poverty and human rights (A/70/274), the note by the Secretary-General
transmitting the report of the Special Rapporteur on trafficking in persons, especially women and children (A/70/260), the note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of the Special Rapporteur on the rights to freedom of peaceful assembly and of association (A/70/266), the note by the SecretaryGeneral transmitting the report of the Special Rapporteur in the field of cultural rights (A/70/279 and A/70/279/Corr.1), the note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of the Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms while countering terrorism (A/70/371), the note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of the Independent Expert on human rights and international solidarity (A/70/316), the note by the Secretary-General on the negative impact of unilateral coercive measures on the enjoyment of human rights (A/70/345) and the note by
the Secretariat on the report of the Secretary-General on the right to development (A/70/111); and, under sub-item (c), the note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in the Palestinian territories occupied since 1967 (A/70/392) and the note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Belarus (A/70/313).
40. It was so decided.
Agenda item 120: Revitalization of the work of the General Assembly (A/C.3/70/L.110)
Draft proposal A/C.3/70/L.110
41. The Chair drew attention to the Committee's tentative programme of work for the seventy-first session of the General Assembly as contained in document A/C.3/70/L.110. He took it that the Committee wished to adopt the tentative programme of work for the seventy-first session and transmit it to the General Assembly for approval.
42. It was so decided.
Conclusion of the work of the Committee
43. The Chair declared that the Third Committee had completed its work for the main part of the seventieth session of the General Assembly.
The meeting rose at 12.10 p.m.
15-20822
9/9