United Nations
A/C.3/72/SR.6
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
Official Records
Distr.: General 17 October 2017
Original: English
Third Committee
Summary record of the 6th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Wednesday, 4 October 2017, at 3 p.m.
Chair: Mr. Gunnarsson (Iceland)
later: Ms. Al-Temimi (Vice-Chair) (Qatar)
Contents
Agenda item 107: Crime prevention and criminal justice (continued) Agenda item 108: International drug control (continued)
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Management Section (dms@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
17-17450 (E)
iiiiiiiin in nilrnmwm
A/C.3/72/SR.6
The meeting was called to order at 3 p.m.
Agenda item 107: Crime prevention and criminal justice (continued) (A/72/125 and A/72/91)
Agenda item 108: International drug control
(continued) (A/72/225)
1. Mr. Mahmadaminov (Tajikistan) said that combating drug trafficking, which was a growing threat to international stability and security, required joint and coordinated efforts. The international community and regional and international organizations must coordinate measures aimed at reducing drug demand and supply, and integrate efforts undertaken at the national and regional levels into the international strategy for narcotics control.
2. To that end, his country worked with regional organizations and relevant United Nations agencies, including the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), with which it published an annual review of the national drug situation that was widely used by law enforcement officers for research, analysis and planning purposes. It also cooperated closely with Afghanistan, China, the Russian Federation and the United States of America.
3. The national strategy on combating illicit drug trafficking in Tajikistan, which covered the period 2013-2020, was intended to significantly reduce the illicit distribution of narcotic drugs and their non-medical use, to reduce the scale of the consequences of their illicit trafficking for health, safety, society and State security, as well as to expand international cooperation. The Drug Control Agency, which had been established with support from UNODC and other donors, was tasked with combating drug trafficking and smuggling, organized crime and drug abuse. In the first half of 2017, it had seized 2.5 tons of narcotics. Such measures had created the conditions for reducing the number of drug-related crimes.
4. Mr. Skinner-Klee (Guatemala) said that drugs were destroying his country's social fabric, depleting its resources, undermining security and democracy, and jeopardizing the rights, health, education and development of Guatemalans. His Government was determined to design public policies that would safeguard human rights and strengthen its capacity to prosecute those involved in the illegal drug trade and money-laundering. It was working with international partners to combat organized crime, corruption and drug trafficking.
5. Seizures of cocaine had doubled and the destruction of marijuana plants was up fourfold, while
opium poppy eradication and heroin seizures had remained stable. Thanks to the expansion of the Glob al Container Control Programme, which had been implemented following the signing of a memorandum of understanding with UNODC, Guatemala had reduced the use of containers to smuggle drugs and chemical precursors. In addition, inter-agency task forces had been established to carry out security operations, in particular along the borders with Mexico, El Salvador and Honduras.
6. Given the growing demand for drugs and the vast profits involved in the illicit drug trade, which led to institutional corruption and violence, he questioned whether prohibition was the best way to address the drug problem. International efforts had not succeeded in reducing violence, money-laundering and arms trafficking; the international community must rethink its options, with the support of the United Nations.
7. Mr. Joshi (India) said that despite the raft of international treaties and conventions designed to address transborder crime, terrorist organizations continued to expand their reach and destabilize entire regions; new conflicts, often involving non-State actors, were forcing large numbers of people to flee, making them vulnerable to organized crime syndicates; money-laundering, fraud and trafficking of persons, arms and drugs were on the rise; and new crimes were emerging, such as cybercrime.
8. The cross-border nature of such crimes posed a serious challenge, as the international community's response was often too slow to be effective. There was a need for real-time intelligence sharing, better coordination of operations and increased capacitybuilding and technological assistance. While existing conventions addressed many issues, there were areas where global solutions remained to be found. For instance, little progress had been made with regard to the comprehensive convention on international terrorism, and there was no common understanding of how to address issues such as cybersecurity.
9. At the national level, India had adopted a multi-stakeholder approach to combating human trafficking and had set up anti-trafficking cells across the country. With regard to cybercrime, it had enacted legislation and established training and investigative laboratories.
10. The Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act addressed drug trafficking and abuse, while allowing the promotion of drugs for medical and scientific purposes. As a supplier of opiate raw material and a longstanding cultivator of licit opium, India had endeavoured to uphold its responsibilities in
2/12
17-17450
A/C.3/72/SR.6
accordance with the principles of the three international drug conventions, including the principle of balance. The country had established a committee and an online monitoring system to identify new psychoactive substances. The manufacture and trade of drug precursors was regulated with a view to preventing diversion without interfering with the legitimate manufacture, trade and use of precursors. India had signed memorandums of cooperation on drug trafficking with 34 countries, including its neighbours, and strongly supported the Paris Pact initiative.
11. Ms. Bellout (Algeria) said that given the challenges posed by organized crime and drug trafficking, which strained sustainable development efforts, her country had adopted a comprehensive programme to modernize its legal system. Her Government was committed to the implementation of the United Nations conventions relating to issues of drugs and crime, especially those forbidding the trafficking of cultural goods. The problem of cybercrime had also become a major challenge for the international community and required collective action in the areas of legislation and capacity -building.
12. Organized crime and drug trafficking also created favourable conditions for violent extremism and terrorism, and all sources of financing for such activities, especially those deriving from drug trafficking, must be cut off. The fact that the headquarters of AFRIPOL, the African Police Cooperation Organization, was located in Algeria demonstrated its leadership in and concern for the well-being of its neighbours. Her Government had put in place several measures to strengthen research, investigative and analytical work to address organized crime. Its approach to drugs was based on the three pillars of prevention, treatment and restrictive measures, and Algeria had significant infrastructure and facilities to support its goals in that area.
13. Mr. Yarkovich (Belarus) said that, in the fight against transnational organized crime, Belarus paid particular attention to combating trafficking in persons. It welcomed the recent high-level meeting of the General Assembly on the appraisal of the United Nations Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons and the adoption of a political declaration. It also took note of the conclusions of the twenty-sixth session of the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice, at which the resolution on the implementation of the Global Plan of Action had been adopted. Recognizing the contribution of UNODC to international efforts to combat trafficking in persons and the coordinating role of the Inter-Agency Coordination Group against Trafficking in Persons,
Belarus recommended that UNODC should create a single United Nations database of national coordinators and mechanisms for combating trafficking in persons and convene a senior-level meeting to develop joint actions. The Internet had been used for trafficking in persons on multiple occasions. It was therefore time to adopt an international instrument to coordinate international cooperation in the elimination of Internet forums and the prohibition of servers used to carry out such criminal activity.
14. The way out of the extremely troubling situation in the global fight against drugs lay in the strengthening of multilateral cooperation among States, international and regional organizations, businesses, civil society and the media. Belarus supported the international legal and institutional framework for combating drugs and work to strengthen the three international anti-drug conventions and adapt them to the new realities. It was firmly against all calls to legalize drugs and break the taboos surrounding them, and called upon the international community to rally against the new generation of drug threats, including new psychoactive substances and the sale of psychotropic agents on the Internet. Efforts must also be mobilized to prevent drug use among children and adolescents.
15. Mr. Santiago (Philippines) said that addressing the pervasive drug problem was one of his Government's top priorities. Under President Duterte, the anti-drug campaign had been strengthened, with government agencies, non-governmental organizations, faith-based groups and the private sector all playing a role. Seizures of illegal drugs, drug-related arrests and closures of clandestine laboratories were at an all -time high and his Government was working with civil society to introduce community-based programmes for young people, vulnerable groups and high-risk populations.
16. In response to the unprecedented number of drug dependent persons who had surrendered to the authorities, the Dangerous Drugs Board had developed guidelines on community -based intervention that would be implemented through local anti-drug abuse councils. With support from the private sector and international partners, in-patient rehabilitation facilities were being built across the country and sustainable treatment and rehabilitation programmes were being implemented in cooperation with civil society. In addition to addressing illicit crop cultivation, his Government was working to provide livelihood opportunities for those in urban areas.
17-17450
3/12
A/C.3/72/SR.6
17. The Government was also using technology and social media to disseminate information and carry out advocacy. Every individual had a key role to play in promoting positive values within their social circles. The ultimate goal was to ensure that all Filipinos lived in safe, drug -free communities. Nevertheless, the anti-drug campaign should not be waged in a manner that undermined its legitimacy. Law enforcement officials had to abide by established procedures and the Government was committed to adhering to the rule of law and human rights obligations.
18. Ms. Kipiani (Georgia) said that reforming the criminal justice system was one of her Government's top priorities. It was committed to ensuring that the criminal justice system was impartial, accountable and efficient, with an independent and fair judiciary and a legal framework focused on crime prevention and protection of human rights. In that connection, her Government had implemented a number of reforms.
19. It had established human rights protection procedures and monitoring mechanisms to prevent human rights violations. A major reform of the prosecution service was under way, with a view to transforming it into an independent, effective, transparent and accountable institution. Emphasis had been placed on protecting human rights and increasing engagement with community members. Oversight and scrutiny of the national security service had improved and secret surveillance operations were subject to greater judicial overview.
20. In addition, the Convention on Preventing and Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence had entered into force in Georgia in September 2017. In accordance with the Convention, a number of amendments had been made to the Criminal Code, including broadening the legal remedies available for victims, criminalizing stalking and female genital mutilation and providing a clear legal definition of rape.
21. Mr. Ugurluoglu (Turkey) said that human trafficking, which had become a profitable business for terrorist organizations, had immense social and economic costs. Given that Governments acting individually could not prevent human trafficking, the international community must work together and, with a view to being seen as relevant, trusted and responsive, develop inclusive, human rights-based approaches. Turkey, which hosted more refugees than any other country, was determined to prevent refugees from falling victim to human trafficking, forced labour and slavery. It had taken a number of steps in that regard, including establishing a coordination
commission, revising the national action plan on human trafficking, setting up a multilingual helpline and creating victim support and voluntary return programmes.
22. His Government had reinforced existing measures to prevent the illegal transfer of cultural property from its country of origin in response to increasing incidences of such illicit transfer, and of destruction of cultural property. The relevant authorities were also heightening their vigilance to prevent the removal of historical artefacts from Turkey.
23. Turkey was committed to combating terrorism in all its forms without distinction. It would continue to fight all terrorist organizations, including the Fethullah Terrorist Organization, Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), Al-Qaida, the Kurdish Workers Party and the Partiya Yekitiya Demokrat. The international community must act with equal determination against all terrorist organizations; a selective approach was unacceptable. In addition, States must ensure that terrorists were brought to justice. Effective implementation of the obligation to extradite or prosecute was crucial. Given the link between terrorism and organized crime, efforts must be made to tackle human, drug and arms trafficking and moneylaundering.
24. The world drug problem must be approached comprehensively. Turkey contributed to bilateral and multilateral efforts to fight drug abuse and trafficking. Due to its geographic location, Turkey was exposed to an extensive flow of illicit goods. Its counter-narcotics policy was based on three pillars: combating domestic distribution networks; dismantling international drug trafficking networks; and investigating the financing of terrorist groups - in particular the Kurdish Workers Party - through drug trafficking. The national strategy on drugs and the action plan, which covered the period 2016-2018, had been implemented in 2016.
25. Mr. Itegboje (Nigeria) said that his Government had recently reformed the criminal justice system with a view to ensuring that the principles of equality, accountability and fairness were respected. It had also brought its legislation into line with article 44 of the United Nations Convention against Corruption to strengthen the fight against corruption and transnational organized crime.
26. Since the establishment of the national drug law enforcement agency, his Government had taken a number of measures to combat drug trafficking and abuse. It had rolled out a country-wide drug prevention programme for fourteen-year-olds, which was proving extremely successful; developed a training programme
4/12
17-17450
A/C.3/72/SR.6
for school counsellors; established treatment, aftercare and HIV/AIDS programmes; used social media to disseminate information to vulnerable groups; set up toll-free helplines and introduced online counselling; and established a support network for drug-dependent persons at all stages of recovery.
27. In addition, in an effort to reduce the supply of drugs, Nigeria had continued to implement anti money-laundering measures to prevent criminals from keeping the proceeds of drug-related crime and had improved information-sharing through the National Financial Intelligence Unit. However, cannabis cultivation remained a considerable challenge. Cannabis had accounted for the bulk of drugs seized in Nigeria in 2016, with some 180,000 kilograms of cannabis seized. In addition, over 700 hectares of cannabis farmland had been destroyed.
28. Ms. Al-Temimi (Qatar), Vice-Chair, took the Chair
29. Ms. Sucharikul (Thailand) said that while the duty of the State was to uphold and respect the rule of law, its people were the ultimate beneficiaries. Therefore the rule of law should ensure the improvement of livelihoods for all people, especially those who were often marginalized, bring perpetrators to justice and end impunity. Her delegation believed that countries could not fully achieve sustainable development as long as crimes persisted without due justice. Thailand had led several efforts nationally and internationally, including support for female and pregnant inmates and their children and strict implementation of the United Nations Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners.
30. With regard to human and drug trafficking, which was a nexus between crime and development, it was clearly necessary to mainstream the rule of law, crime prevention and criminal justice into all efforts towards the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals. Thailand had adopted a zero -tolerance policy on human trafficking, and the needs of all vulnerable groups, particularly women and children, needed to be duly considered and appropriate assistance furnished to the victims of trafficking.
31. National strategies contained components of drug prevention, suppression, treatment and rehabilitation, and social integration in order to address the issue of narcotics control. Alternatives to imprisonment were encouraged and specialized legislation and commissions were functioning as new elements of the approach to criminal justice. A new law on penitentiaries, for instance, would change the core mission of correctional services from punishment to rehabilitation and bring practices in line with human
rights principles and international standards. The crop substitution project begun over 50 years earlier was a success story in terms of alternative development, and its principles might be applied in urban settings in the future.
32. Mr. Munir (Pakistan) said that the discussion on the world drug problem was timely, and the thirtieth special session of the General Assembly held in 2016 had reaffirmed the commitment of the international community to address the issue. The report of the Secretary-General on international cooperation against the world drug problem (A/72/225) noted that despite some important progress, new psychotropic substances belonging to diverse chemical groups continued to emerge around the world, and rapid changes in trafficking routes, modus operandi and concealment methods called for better international cooperation.
33. The policies of his Government for countering narcotics were based on the main pillars of supply reduction, demand reduction and international cooperation, and his country, fully committed to working towards a drug-free world, had made great contributions through coordinated seizure operations. Given that the objective was to build a drug-free society, not a drug-tolerant one, his delegation was concerned by the counterproductive trends in some parts of the world to legalize the use of illicit drugs. Such approaches would ignite the supply chain and lead to fallout in the region of his country. His delegation believed that a comprehensive approach that addressed not only the symptoms, but also the root causes of drug crimes, was needed. Money-laundering and corruption were still formidable challenges, and Pakistan had taken special measures in the context of the Anti-Money-Laundering Act, 2010 to combat money-laundering and terrorist financing.
34. His Government, as a member of the United Nations Commission on Narcotic Drugs, emphasized the need to strengthen the Commission's leading role in drug prevention, treatment and care, and was unwaveringly committed to close cooperation with the international community to promote prosperity in a changing world.
35. Mr. Bin Momen (Bangladesh) said that in an interconnected and interdependent world, criminal networks operated transnationally, in an organized manner and as opportunists, manipulating crime prevention and justice systems. Concerted efforts were needed, and as a party to the relevant United Nations conventions, his country had been making efforts to combat those crimes. A holistic approach should be adopted and best practices shared in order to address
17-17450
5/12
A/C.3/72/SR.6
the factors of human trafficking, prioritizing the needs of poor, marginalized and vulnerable people, especially women and children. Bangladesh was consistently engaged with various United Nations initiatives, groups, deliberations and platforms, while at the national level, it had enacted legislation and established several plans and committees concerning efforts against human trafficking including prevention, protection, legal justice, partnership development, and data collection and analysis.
36. His country had also been at the forefront of deliberations to promote safe, orderly and regular migration, and was attempting to retain the human trafficking dimension in the migration discourse. The geographical location of Bangladesh, on a productiontransit-consumption route, made it very difficult to control drug trafficking and its related abuses, which were rising. His Government was devising new strategies to address the problem, such as introducing awareness campaigns, engaging with families and other stakeholders, and arranging for treatment, rehabilitation and assistance for those in need.
37. A policy of zero tolerance towards all forms of terrorism and violent extremism was being maintained, and bold steps had been taken to prevent financing and other support for terrorism and radicalization. The Government had also established new law-enforcement units and strengthened existing ones in order to investigate, prosecute and block all forms of organized crime and illicit financial flows for criminal activities.
38. In order to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals, priority should be placed on strengthening the rule of law, preventing crime, and promoting fair, human and accountable criminal justice systems.
39. Ms. Gonzalez Tolosa (Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela) said that her Government was committed to combating the drug problem, complying with its international obligations under the International Drug Control Conventions, the human rights treaties and the Political Declaration and Plan of Action on International Cooperation towards an Integrated and Balanced Strategy to Counter the World Drug Problem, and strengthening its institutions.
40. Under the National Anti-Drug Plan 2015-2019, the Government had strengthened its efforts to combat organized criminal groups involved in the illegal drug trade by equipping and updating the relevant bodies. It had implemented many of the operational recommendations that had resulted from the 2016 special session of the General Assembly on the world drug problem. . The National Anti -Narcotics Office had established a national prevention system, which sought
to involve the public in the development of initiatives intended to prevent drug abuse and aid treatment and rehabilitation.
41. There was a need to better understand the causes of the world drug problem, address the health and safety consequences of the illegal drug trade and prioritize evidence-based measures. Her country had made progress, in particular in the area of supply reduction, and had been free of illicit crops for over a decade. Currently its efforts were focused on intelligence gathering, monitoring and preventing trafficking.
42. It was important to respect the three pillars of the international drug control conventions, namely supply reduction, demand reduction and international cooperation, in addition to international law and the principles of sovereignty, non-interference and selfdetermination. Venezuela rejected all unilateral lists and certifications, which jeopardized the efforts of States to tackle the drug problem and undermined international cooperation. In that connection, her country was working with its neighbours to combat the drug problem, had signed over 40 international legal instruments and had helped to dismantle international drug cartels operating in the region.
43. Mr. Bultrikov (Kazakhstan) said that the fight against the serious threats of transnational organized crime, the illicit drug trade and human trafficking should be carried out in close cooperation among States and relevant regional and international organizations. The world drug problem jeopardized public health and safety, targeted youth and children, undermined socioeconomic and political stability, and constituted a threat to sustainable development. Member States must place individuals and societies at the centre of all policy directives in addressing the problem, and take an approach that was based on scientific evidence and the participation of affected populations and civil society entities.
44. His country participated in the regional and international programmes of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, and was particularly interested in the Central Asian Regional Information and Coordination Centre and the interdepartmental groups on the control of shipping containers at the port of Aktau. His Government welcomed the work of regional organizations such as the Commonwealth of Independent States, the Collective Security Treaty Organization and the Conference on Interaction and Confidence-building Measures in Asia, and reiterated its commitment to work with the international community at all levels and with all United Nations
6/12
17-17450
A/C.3/72/SR.6
mechanisms towards a world free of transnational crime, illicit trafficking of drugs and human beings, especially women, and corruption.
45. Ms. Horbachova (Ukraine) said that the complex problems of drugs, organized crime, trafficking, corruption, money -laundering and terrorism financing, with all of their interlinkages, required better bilateral, regional and international cooperation on the basis of the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities in the context of the United Nations system. Her delegation welcomed the practice of holding joint meetings of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs and the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice. Her Government remained committed to improving its drug-demand reduction programmes, including the components of primary prevention, early intervention, treatment, care, rehabilitation, social reintegration and related support services, aimed at promoting health and social well-being in full compliance with international drug-control conventions, in accordance with national legislation, and with full respect for human rights, and welcomed global actions taken to address the issues.
46. Her delegation recognized the crucial role that the Commission on Narcotic Drugs, International Narcotics Control Board and United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime played in delivering technical assistance to Member States, including through joint implementation of projects. The Office had helped States to apply the relevant United Nations standards and norms and improve their national criminal justice systems to operate more effectively under the rule of law, and her delegation encouraged the Office to make further efforts in that regard, noting with appreciation the launch of the Strategic Partnership and Programmatic Actions Framework in Eastern Europe for 2017-2020.
47. The challenge her country faced in implementing key international legal instruments to combat human trafficking and the smuggling of migrants was exacerbated by massive internal migration fuelled by the ongoing conflict in the Donbas region, initiated and prolonged by Russia, as well as the occupation of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. The civilian population in certain areas remained extremely vulnerable to threats related to trafficking in human beings, particularly forced labour and military recruitment. The international community should respond accordingly.
48. Her delegation also concerned itself with the problems of cybercrime and corruption, and was grateful to the Office and the donor community for
supporting her country in combating HIV/AIDS, corruption, money-laundering and drug trafficking.
49. Mr. Wang Zhaoxue (China) said that the international community needed to strengthen cooperation in such areas as crime prevention, criminal justice, combating corruption, transnational organized crime and drug prohibition. In the context of the recent increase in incidents of cybercrime and transnational telecommunications fraud and ransomware attacks, his delegation supported the work of the group of experts on cybercrime as well as the formulation of an international legal instrument on cybercrime, and was grateful for the assistance furnished by States concerned.
50. His Government took seriously the issues of wildlife crime and illicit trafficking of cultural objects, among others, and wished to enhance cooperation in that regard. It also attached great importance to the work of combating corruption, and anticipated that the seventh Conference of the States Parties to the United Nations Convention against Corruption would be successful. All parties should earnestly implement the Convention and eliminate political and legal obstacles to cooperation in tracking fugitives and recovering assets transnationally so that corrupt officials and their illicit gains would have nowhere to hide. The parties should adhere to the principles of non-interference in the internal affairs of States, respect for sovereignty, and the intergovernmental nature of review mechanisms, so as to properly conduct the second cycle of the review and improve working efficiency.
51. Parties should apply the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime as a form of judicial support and a legal basis for cooperation in the areas of extradition and asset recovery. His delegation supported the establishment of an effective mechanism for reviewing the implementation of the Convention, and was of the view that all parties should engage in the intergovernmental process and ensure a non-invasive and non-punitive character in the design of the mechanism, while drawing on experiences relating to its equivalent for the Convention against Corruption and ensuring the availability of reliable funding.
52. Countries should address the problem of human trafficking through education, legislation, law enforcement and social protections, focus on acts of trafficking and strengthen cooperation in law enforcement among countries of origin, transit and destination. Large-scale migration posed serious challenges to the international community, but migrants played a positive role in the sustainable
17-17450
7/12
A/C.3/72/SR.6
development of countries of origin and destination. All countries should promote safe, regular and orderly migration and focus on the root causes of trafficking, such as poverty and disproportionate development between regions.
53. In order to resolve the world drug problem, States
should prioritize the implementation of the Political Declaration and Plan of Action on International
Cooperation towards an Integrated and Balanced
Strategy to Counter the World Drug Problem, the Joint Ministerial Statement of the 2014 high-level review by the Commission on Narcotic Drugs of the implementation by Member States of the Political Declaration and Plan of Action on International
Cooperation towards an Integrated and Balanced
Strategy to Counter the World Drug Problem, and the outcome document of the thirtieth special session of the General Assembly, which were complementary to one another. China supported the three main drug control conventions as the foundation of the
international drug control system, and opposed all
forms of legalization of illicit drugs. It supported the leading role of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs, the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime and the International Narcotics Control Board and objected to any attempt to weaken their status.
54. In the fight against narcotic drugs, consideration should be given to the promotion of human rights as well as the stability and collective interests of society. However, no undue emphasis should be given to human rights issues, as that would undermine the effectiveness of law enforcement. Each country was entitled to formulate drug control policies best suited to its national conditions in conformity with the three conventions. The question of the death penalty should not be associated with that of narcotic drugs. The international community should pay attention to the inadequate supply of basic medicines in some countries and the abuse, overuse and illicit transfer of controlled substances in other countries.
55. Mr. Teffo (South Africa) said that although his Government respected the sovereign right of a country to review its policies concerning illicit drugs and their usage, it was important to maintain compliance with commitments made by Member States under the three main drug control conventions. His delegation welcomed initiatives such as the United Nations Joint Global Programme on Essential Services for Women and Girls Subject to Violence. As a signatory State to the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action, the Government of South Africa was mindful of the need to mainstream gender in its pursuit of the Sustainable Development Goals. The Government had promulgated
a number of legislative instruments to address the structural manifestations of patriarchy.
56. South Africa was a source, transit and destination country for persons subjected to forced labour and sex trafficking. His delegation welcomed the adoption of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and its goals and targets relating to trafficking in persons, as well as the New York Declaration for Refugees and Migrants and the political declaration on the implementation of the United Nations Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons. However, they needed to be supported by action and political commitments at all levels. His delegation welcomed the generous funding pledges made to that end by certain Member States, as well as the outcomes, particularly the draft questionnaires, of the recent sessions of the working groups tasked with the issues of trafficking in persons and the smuggling of migrants.
57. According to disturbing statistics furnished in 2016 by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, 94 per cent of poaching in Africa in 2014 had taken place in his own country. His Government was therefore undertaking efforts to protect the magnificent natural flora and fauna from the threat of the illegal wildlife trade.
58. Mr. Them (Myanmar) said that his country was implementing its international commitments in close cooperation with UNODC and INTERPOL. States and international organizations must work together to combat transnational crime and his Government appreciated the support it had received from its international partners. Myanmar was simultaneously tackling violent extremism, money-laundering, corruption, smuggling of wildlife and drugs and human trafficking through relevant mechanisms. In the area of human trafficking, Myanmar was focusing on policy and cooperation, prevention, protection and prosecution, as set forth in a five-year action plan.
59. Combating narcotic drugs was a longstanding priority for Myanmar, but poppy cultivation continued despite the efforts of successive Governments. The eradication of methamphetamine posed another serious challenge, owing to illegal inflows of precursor chemicals. The narcotic drugs problem was primarily being addressed through supply and demand reduction and law enforcement. His Government was drafting a new drug control policy that took a balanced and integrated multisectoral approach, in line with the recommendations emanating from the special session of the General Assembly on the world drug problem. A number of working groups and committees had been
8/12
17-17450
A/C.3/72/SR.6
established at different levels, which were working in close cooperation to reduce production and use. Other strategies included raising awareness of the dangers of narcotic drugs among school children and young people; deploying law enforcement units to the parts of the country where drug production and trafficking was most prevalent; and establishing drug treatment and rehabilitation services. Lastly, Myanmar was collaborating with countries at the bilateral, subregional and regional levels to reduce demand.
60. Mr. Poudel Chhetri (Nepal) said that the declaration adopted in September 2017 during the high-level meeting of the General Assembly on the appraisal of the United Nations Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons reflected the collective will to end all forms of trafficking. The commitments made should be translated into action and the requisite resources should be made available without delay. International support was required to build the capacity of developing countries, and focused and sustained partnerships with international organizations were an essential aspect of transnational crime prevention.
61. As a country with large numbers of outbound migrant workers, Nepal was particularly hard hit by trafficking in persons. However, it was committed to countering it at the national, regional and global levels and had enacted the Human Trafficking and Transportation Control Act in line with the provisions of international conventions. In cooperation with UNODC and the European Union, his Government had also launched the Global Action to Prevent and Address Trafficking in Persons and the Smuggling of Migrants in Nepal in March 2017.
62. The drug problem was exacerbated where there were strong links between drug trafficking and human trafficking. Concerted international efforts were required to combat the interconnected nature of transnational crime and dismantle entire networks. The Narcotic Drugs Control Act prohibited the production, storage, sale, consumption and trade of all types of narcotics and psychotropic substances, and his Government had formulated additional policies and strategies to monitor and review its implementation. Nepal was committed to working with the international community to strengthen its capacity to tackle transnational crime.
63. Ms. Sorto Rosales (El Salvador) said that three areas should be given priority in order to combat the world drug problem effectively. The first was to capture the drug lords; the second was to develop a more effective anti-money-laundering strategy; and the
third was to improve the mechanisms for confiscating property acquired using the proceeds of crime, which would strike a blow to the criminal organizations and enable those resources to be used to fund development in the countries affected and to combat the illegal drug trade.
64. The 2016-2021 national anti-drugs strategy had been adopted in October 2016 and reflected the recommendations emanating from the special session of the General Assembly on the world drug problem. It explicitly recognized that drug dependence was first and foremost a public health problem, and professional and non-professional staff were being trained in the prevention and treatment of drug consumption with the support of the Organization of American States and the European Union.
65. Joint action to tackle the world drug problem should be based on the principle of common and shared responsibility; international cooperation and technical and financial assistance must therefore be coordinated and coherent. Support was key to both prevention, which would reduce demand, and to countering organized crime, which would reduce supply.
66. Mr. Konfourou (Mali) said that the crisis in his country was being fuelled by terrorism, violent extremism and other forms of transnational organized crime, including drug, arms and human trafficking. Combating the illegal drug trade was therefore a national priority, since its proceeds were the main source of funding for terrorist activity and organized crime. A law had been adopted in 2001 on controlling drugs and precursors, and an inter-ministerial mission to coordinate the fight against drugs and a central drug office had been established. Significant results had already been achieved: a record amount of cannabis had been seized in 2016, which had resulted in the prosecution of 175 people.
67. However, Mali needed the support of the international community to tackle such challenges as creating an information system to collect and disseminate reliable information on drug trafficking, and setting up specialized centres to care for drug addicts. The regional office of UNODC was providing support to implement a project on strengthening the criminal justice system and enforcing the law in the Sahel with a view to preventing and combating the illegal drug trade and transnational crime and their links to terrorism.
68. The Group of Five for the Sahel had been established to enhance cooperation on the common challenges of development and security. A joint force
17-17450
9/12
A/C.3/72/SR.6
would shortly be deployed to fight terrorism, organized transnational crime and migrant trafficking, which would help create the conditions for sustainable development. However, the root causes of destabilization must be addressed, such as extreme poverty, endemic youth unemployment and exclusion, and they were the subject of the Group's priority investment programme.
69. Ms. Martinic (Argentina) said that, since the new Government had taken office in 2015, a new comprehensive and balanced strategy had been devised to address the problem of drug trafficking and the responsibilities for tackling the drug problem had been redistributed at the national level. In the area of supply reduction, and in light of the extension of the state of public security emergency, a strategy was being implemented by federal, provincial and customs officials working in close coordination to dismantle criminal organizations.
70. Argentina had improved its data collection by introducing a single form to report procedures and had completed its first-ever mapping of all drug seizures. During 2016, many agents had received training on the latest developments in the fight against the illegal drug trade. Considerable progress had also been made over the past year on the legislative front; in particular, laws had been adopted penalizing the diversion of precursor chemicals for drug manufacture and establishing a federal council on precursor chemicals.
71. With regard to collaboration with international organizations, Argentina was implementing the Airport Communication Programme (AIRCOP) and in 2016 had received its first visit from the International Narcotics Control Board in 10 years. It was also participating more actively in the early warning systems on precursor chemicals and new psychoactive substances.
72. Mr. al-Teraifi (Bahrain) said that his country had established a number of voluntary, legal and administrative mechanisms to counter the spread of illicit drugs and had forged strong partnerships with relevant stakeholders within Bahraini society with a view to raising public awareness of the dangers that those drugs posed.
73. An anti-narcotics office at the Ministry of the Interior investigated drug crimes and carried out arrests of perpetrators of drug-related offences, and specialized anti-drugs units at the country's border crossings monitored the arrival and departure of travellers, in coordination with relevant authorities in other States and INTERPOL. Bahrain had, moreover, increased the penalties for drug-related crimes and
adopted legislation to combat money-laundering. It had also signed numerous international instruments on drugs, including all three international drug control treaties and worked with other Arab and Gulf States to combat illicit drug use. Furthermore, in coordination with the United Nations Development Programme and the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, Bahrain had established a national anti-drug committee and, in 2015, had successfully implemented a national anti-drug policy.
74. Bahrain was also seeking to raise awareness among young people of the dangers of illicit drug use. To that end, it had launched a national youth drug prevention programme as well as a programme to address violence and addiction in schools, which had been implemented in some 90 schools across the country. Bahrain believed that drug addiction should be viewed, primarily, as a medical condition rather than as a criminal justice matter; his country therefore sought to provide addicts with medical treatment instead of bringing them before the courts and was establishing a state-of-the-art hospital specializing in drug addiction that would draw upon global best practices and cutting edge research in order to provide drug addicts with the best possible treatment.
75. Ms. Haidour (Morocco) said that the international community should invest in prevention and support for drug addicts in order to reduce the cost of health services, improve security and contribute to social cohesion and development. National policies to combat the drug problem included strategies for demand reduction; better sharing of information and best practices for supply reduction; and measures to promote alternative development.
76. With regard to supply reduction, government efforts to combat cannabis cultivation had reduced the cannabis crop by over 65 per cent. Significant resources were also being directed towards projects to foster alternative development, in particular in the northern provinces. In addition, Morocco was working to optimize its border control in light of the deteriorating security situation in the Sahelo-Saharan States and in some Maghreb countries.
77. In terms of demand reduction, Morocco was implementing a national plan of action to combat addiction, which had taken account of the recommendations of the World Health Organization. Her Government believed that demand reduction policies should be linked to alternative development policies at the national, regional and international levels.
10/12
17-17450
A/C.3/72/SR.6
78. Mr. Mikayilli (Azerbaijan) said that his country had made significant progress in amending its criminal legislation in such areas as safeguarding the rights of prisoners and modernizing the judiciary. Some economic offences had been decriminalized and a national probation service to supervise non-custodial sentences had been established in February 2017 by means of a presidential order.
79. Joint action plans had been signed with the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) to support the juvenile justice system. The action plans covered matters such as reforming the administration of justice for juveniles, providing training for law enforcement agencies and conducting public awareness campaigns. The Public Committee, which was made up of representatives of civil society, was responsible for ensuring transparency and public oversight of the justice system.
80. With regard to human trafficking, Azerbaijan had adopted a law and three consecutive national action plans on the subject, and had added four new articles to the Criminal Code. A dedicated police unit had been set up within the Ministry of the Interior and a national mechanism was responsible for coordinating the activities of government agencies, civil society organizations and foreign partners. Information on human trafficking was exchanged with other countries on the basis of 90 bilateral and multilateral agreements, memorandums and protocols.
81. Lastly, the national anti-corruption policy was implemented principally through the State Agency for Services and Social Innovations to Citizens, which provided a myriad of public services under one roof, and maintained a policy of complete transparency and zero tolerance of corruption.
82. Mr. Hassani Nejad Pirkouhi (Islamic Republic of Iran) said that his Government was continuing to call for the adoption of a balanced and comprehensive strategy to combat illicit drugs that, away from political considerations, ensured the expansion of regional and international cooperation on the principle of collective and international shared responsibility. Unfortunately, the brunt of the burden was still mainly borne by transit countries. The Islamic Republic of Iran had sustained huge losses of life and expended billions of dollars in order to deprive the merchants of death of the bulk of their illicit drugs and protect part of the global community from the evil of addiction. Thousands of Iranian law enforcement officers had lost their lives or had been maimed in the country's relentless campaign to stem the flow of drugs. While drug traffickers with links to terrorist groups and
organized crime targeted the fabric of Iranian society and stole its youth, the support provided by the international community had been negligible.
83. His Government had implemented comprehensive programmes to reduce demand for drugs, which included prevention, harm reduction, treatment and rehabilitation services. The coverage of the prevention programmes and voluntary enrolment in harmreduction and treatment services stood at 40 per cent. As a result, HIV transmission among intravenous drug users had fallen by 60 per cent. Under the Government's community-based approach, over 85 per cent of demand-reduction programmes were run by non-governmental and private organizations. To reduce the prison population, alternative punishments for those convicted of drug-related offences had been implemented, and harm-reduction and treatment services had been introduced in prisons. Following a recent review of national drug policy, the death penalty would apply only to the most serious drug crimes. With regard to mechanisms, the three international drug control conventions, by virtue of their scope and flexibility, formed the bedrock of the international system to combat illicit drugs.
84. Ms. Mukhtar (Sudan) said that, in accordance with its regional and international commitments, her country was making every effort to combat human trafficking, illicit drugs and terrorism. With the support of the African Union and the European Union, her country had hosted an international conference in 2014 on human trafficking and smuggling in the Horn of Africa and a follow-up conference had been held on that theme in Italy later that year. She called on donor countries to provide Sudan with the support it required to implement the outcomes of the two conferences.
85. Sudan had enacted legislation to combat human trafficking, particularly the trafficking of women and children, and had also signed border control agreements with neighbouring States to strengthen its efforts to combat arms trafficking and the activities of organized criminal gangs and terrorists.
86. Her country had adopted a national strategy on illicit drugs in 2015 and had also passed a number of related laws, including a law to combat money laundering and the financing of terrorism. The country's financial investigations unit had been strengthened and Sudan had also streamlined the procedures by which the country dealt with extradition requests and could seize illicitly-gained financial assets. As a result of those efforts, the Financial Action Task Force had certified that Sudan was in compliance
17-17450
11/12
A/C.3/72/SR.6
with its anti-money-laundering and countering terrorist financing obligations.
87. Sudan had also amended its law on illicit drugs and psychotropic substances to bring it into line with relevant international instruments, and had adopted regulations to ensure that drugs were used appropriately in the medical field. Sudan had also taken steps to strengthen the relationship between citizens and the police in urban areas, which had led to a reduction in crime levels.
88. A number of United Nations reports published in recent months, including the report issued in April 2017 by the Panel of Experts on the Sudan, had underscored how armed movements in Darfur had evolved into criminal groups that financed their activities by perpetrating human trafficking operations and highway robberies. Sudan was fully committed to combating those criminal activities, and would continue to collaborate with the international community to that end. In that regard, she drew attention to her country's exemplary cooperation with the European Union in its efforts to combat human trafficking. Sudan called on peace partners, donor countries and other friendly States to increase their financial and technical assistance with a view to combating that phenomenon as well as the illicit drug trade and international terrorism.
The meeting rose at 5.10 p.m.
12/12
17-17450