United Nations
A/C.3/69/SR.20
General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
Official Records
Distr.: General 19 November 2014
Original: English
Third Committee
Summary record of the 20th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Monday, 20 October 2014, at 3 p.m.
Chair: Mr. Davis (Vice-Chair) (Jamaica)
Contents
Agenda item 65: Rights of indigenous peoples (continued)
(a) Rights of indigenous peoples (continued)
(b) Second International Decade of the World's Indigenous People (continued)
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Control Unit (srcorrections@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
14-62976 (E)
in i iiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiii
A/C.3/69/SR.20
In the absence of Ms. Mesquita Borges (Timor-Leste), Mr. Davis (Jamaica), Vice-Chair, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3 p.m.
Agenda item 65: Rights of indigenous peoples
(continued) (A/69/267, A/69/271 and A/69/278)
(a) Rights of indigenous peoples (continued)
(b) Second International Decade of the World's Indigenous People (continued)
1. Mr. Taula (New Zealand) said that his delegation welcomed the participation of indigenous representatives, particularly within the Global Coordinating Group, in the World Conference on Indigenous Peoples. It was particularly encouraged by the outcomes for vulnerable groups, including indigenous youth, persons with disabilities, and women and children, and by the focus on health, education and addressing discrimination and violence. Member States should follow up with practical steps to implement the outcome document. Indigenous issues must be taken into account during the formulation of the post-2015 development agenda.
2. New Zealand had demonstrated its support for the advancement of indigenous issues and rights through representation by its first Maori Governor General at the Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues and by the outgoing Minister of Maori Affairs at the World Conference. His Government was committed to building and maintaining meaningful relationships with the Maori and placed a strong focus on working inclusively with them to develop Maori -driven strategies in the areas of health, housing, education, economic development and justice. His country could not reach its full potential unless the Maori were empowered to achieve their aspirations.
3. Mr. Tituana (Ecuador) said that his country was a democratic, intercultural, plurinational constitutional State based on the rule of law which sought to guarantee the realization of the principle of “living well”. That principle was based on the indigenous aspiration to coexistence premised on human wellbeing, solidarity, equality, equity, social justice and harmony with nature. Under the Constitution, “living well” provided a benchmark for the exercise of a series of social, economic, cultural and environmental rights. The Constitution also safeguarded the collective rights
of the various indigenous communities within the Ecuadorian State.
4. The principle of “living well” constituted an alternative development vision that placed human beings at the centre of public policy. The primary challenge was universalizing rights and opportunities in order to ensure that “living well” benefited all individuals, communities, peoples and ethnic groups. Government efforts to strengthen national identity, plurinationality and interculturality included providing scholarships to the various peoples and ethnic groups and revitalizing ancestral knowledge and cultural heritage within the intercultural educational system.
5. His Government prioritized the integration of gender and intercultural perspectives into public policy through a participatory process that highlighted the causes of discrimination and took steps to counter it. The affirmative action measures taken by his Government included the addition of some 75 young indigenous and Afro-descendent diplomats, himself included, to the country's diplomatic service.
6. Ecuador had championed the inclusion of several elements in the outcome document of the World Conference , including the recognition of traditional medicine and knowledge and of cultural diversity in education, and the commitment to adopt new measures to prevent the violation of indigenous peoples' rights, bearing in mind the responsibility of transnational corporations in that regard. He hoped that in the future, steps to respond to the needs and demands of indigenous peoples would be taken without delay and that a third international decade of the world's indigenous people would be established to ensure the full implementation of the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples. The post-2015 development agenda must take into consideration the needs of indigenous peoples.
7. Archbishop Auza (Observer for the Holy See) said that the Holy See welcomed the efforts being made to eliminate discrimination against indigenous peoples and to promote their full and effective participation in decision-making, especially on issues that directly or indirectly affected them. Fostering indigenous specificity did not necessarily mean going back to the past; it entailed the right of indigenous peoples to move forward, guided by their timehonoured collective values, such as respect for human life and dignity, representative decision-making
2/9
14-62976
A/C.3/69/SR.20
processes and preservation of community rituals. In the face of globalization, industrialization and urbanization, those values could not simply be put aside.
8. The world's indigenous peoples had the same claim as other individuals, peoples and nations to their fundamental human right to development. That right must be realized in harmony with their specific identity and values. Moreover, indigenous peoples themselves must have input in their own development. Policies formulated for indigenous peoples without their active participation could do more harm than good, especially if such policies did not respect their identity and value systems, or focused mainly on folkloric aspects. National and local policies were even more decisive than international efforts in ensuring respect for the rights of indigenous peoples. In that connection, he highlighted the importance of just laws to regulate the relationship between indigenous peoples and extractive industries operating in ancestral lands. The post-2015 development agenda must address the situation of indigenous peoples; all initiatives concerning them should be guided by the principle of respect for their identity and cultures, including specific traditions, religious beliefs and the ability to decide on their own development, in cooperation with their national Governments and the relevant international bodies.
9. Mr. Llorentty Soliz (Plurinational State of Bolivia) said that the Constitution of Bolivia recognized the pre-colonial existence of the indigenous and aboriginal farming peoples and their ancestral dominion over their territories, and guaranteed their self-determination in the context of State unity, namely their right to autonomy, self-government, culture, recognition of their institutions and consolidation of their territories. It also recognized 36 indigenous languages and Spanish as the official languages of Bolivia. Few countries had gone to such lengths to implement indigenous rights at the national and local levels, an effort that was mainly attributable to the Bolivian people in general and the indigenous and aboriginal peoples in particular, who had succeeded in transforming a colonialist, neoliberal State founded on the basis of exclusion and discrimination against them. Bolivia had also been one of the first countries to incorporate the Declaration into its legislation and its Constitution.
10. In Bolivia, under the principle of plurinationality, indigenous peoples were recognized as distinct historical and political entities that were components of
the intercultural State and society. Majority indigenous in composition, his country had attained the highest proportion of indigenous parliamentary representation, with 32 per cent of all seats held by indigenous representatives. The resources generated by nationalization of the hydrocarbon industry had funded significant advances in health care, education, housing, employment and infrastructure. Indigenous universities and an indigenous development fund had been established. Academic curricula were being diversified pursuant to relevant laws, and collective health care rights and traditional medicine were being promoted. Moreover, an agrarian reform law had granted indigenous communities titles to their communal lands, with a particular emphasis on women.
11. The principle of “living well” was enshrined in Bolivia's development vision, promoting interculturality, coexistence in community, and meeting material needs in harmony with nature. His country was expecting to eliminate extreme poverty in 2025, through a longterm national development plan that also aimed to achieve sovereign food security, industrialization, technological progress and universal provision of basic services.
12. During the colonial period, traditional knowledge and culture had been stigmatized and even outlawed. Bolivia reiterated that the coca leaf in its natural state caused no harm to human health, a fact confirmed by scientific studies in developed countries. His Government requested the World Health Organization to conduct an exhaustive study on the leaf's properties. Welcoming the outcome document of the World Conference, Bolivia called on the international community to acknowledge the contributions of indigenous peoples to sustainable development.
13. Ms. Melon (Argentina) said that her Government had a policy of protecting human rights, including those of indigenous peoples, whose rights had been officially recognized by a 1994 constitutional amendment. Argentina was one of 20 countries that had ratified Convention No. 169 of the International Labour Organization, the only legally binding instrument that ensured the protection of indigenous peoples. It had also acceded to the Declaration in 2007. Her country firmly supported the United Nations framework that was being established to promote the participation of indigenous peoples in the work of the Organization, including the Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues. The Special Rapporteur on the
14-62976
3/9
A/C.3/69/SR.20
rights of indigenous peoples had visited Argentina in 2011 and had commended legislative measures and policies of respect for cultural diversity and the traditional knowledge of indigenous peoples, including the Education Act of 2006, which provided for bilingual intercultural education, and more recent legislation which had enabled indigenous communities to establish their own radio stations. A law on indigenous community land tenure had been applied to over 4.5 million hectares to date.
14. Noting the need to strengthen international efforts to promote indigenous rights, Argentina urged all Member States to participate actively in the consideration of the Secretary-General's forthcoming recommendations on facilitating the participation of indigenous peoples in the Organization's work on matters that affected them. Furthermore, indigenous issues should be incorporated into the Millennium Development Goals and the post-2015 development agenda as a cross-cutting element. Statistics generated by national statistical offices and regional and international bodies were an important policy tool in monitoring the situation of indigenous peoples and promoting their rights.
15. Mr. Zamora (El Salvador) said that the support of agencies, funds and programmes of the United Nations, and of resident coordinators, was of great importance to the implementation of national plans of action and other measures adopted by States to achieve the objectives of the Declaration. His delegation supported the establishment of a third international decade of the world's indigenous people and endorsed the need to institutionalize mechanisms for international coordination and cooperation on issues relating to indigenous peoples. His delegation hoped that indigenous peoples would be included as distinct peoples, rather than as marginalized, vulnerable groups, in the post-2015 development agenda.
16. El Salvador was using dialogue to build bridges between the State and indigenous peoples. Following the visit of the Special Rapporteur on the rights of indigenous peoples to El Salvador in 2012, a participatory process between indigenous organizations and Government institutions had resulted in the joint formulation of a draft public policy project for the social, economic, cultural, environmental and administrative development of indigenous peoples. His Government had also taken measures to affirm the historic cultural patrimony of the aboriginal peoples of
El Salvador. A first Nahuat-Spanish dictionary and grammar had been published, and a stipend had been granted to the last generations of Nahuat speakers as an incentive to transmit the language orally. A multicultural health policy was being formulated as a result of consultations with the Nahuat Pipil, Kakawira and Lenca peoples. In 2014, El Salvador had formally recognized indigenous peoples in an amendment to its Constitution regarding the preservation of their identity and world view. His Government would continue working to overcome existing obstacles and address indigenous peoples' demands and in so doing, to achieve development for the Salvadoran people as a whole.
17. Ms. Nguele Makouelet (Congo) said that a 2011 national law on the promotion and protection of the rights of indigenous peoples had had a visibly positive impact on the situation of indigenous peoples in the Congo, who enjoyed equal access to the civil service and to health care and education, and had the right to form associations and to elect and be elected. In August 2013, her Government had adopted a national action plan to improve the quality of life of indigenous peoples. It was also in the process of drafting or adopting legislative and regulatory measures on the use of natural resources, particularly forests and fauna, which would provide for the free, prior and informed consent of indigenous peoples and would ensure strict respect for their rights and cultural activities.
18. Since the lifestyle and practices of indigenous peoples contributed to the preservation of forest ecosystems, Congo called on the international community to mobilize the necessary resources to invest in the development of basic infrastructure, including the promotion of income-generating activities and payments for environmental services. Her Government had established the International Forum of Indigenous Peoples of Central Africa, which provided a space for indigenous peoples to communicate their knowledge. Congo was committed, through the promotion of the rights of indigenous peoples, to establishing a society based on the rule of law and free of discrimination, and called for the development of economic, social and cultural programmes to effectively promote the rights of indigenous peoples, in particular women and youth.
19. Ms. Nyerere (United Republic of Tanzania) said that it was no accident that, in 2013, the secretariat of the Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues, when assessing progress towards the attainment of the
4/9
14-62976
A/C.3/69/SR.20
Millennium Development Goals and food insecurity, had failed to make specific reference to Africa. That omission could be explained by the unique circumstances of indigenous peoples in Africa, which varied from region to region and from country to country; if the goals of the Decade were to be achieved, national and regional particularities, and historical and cultural aspects, must be taken into account. Her Government had always expressed reservations on the existence of indigenous communities within its jurisdiction; the indigenous concept had found favour during the colonial era, when colonialism had marginalized and discriminated against pastoral societies in Africa. Accordingly, immediately after gaining independence, Tanzania had adopted measures to ensure the well-being of all people, regardless of ethnicity or tribal affiliation, and had invested heavily in the provision of social amenities, economic empowerment and the political participation of all communities, including minority groups.
20. Despite efforts to promote the advancement of all communities in Tanzania, through national development plans and programmes, some minority groups continued to maintain traditional lifestyles and were dependent on access to land and natural resources. Schemes such as the Productive Social Safety Net aimed to protect households from both seasonal and unexpected events, and provided tools for mitigating poverty and vulnerability, improving living standards and overcoming food shortages. Certificates of village land were issued to community members who formed villages for the purposes of legal recognition. In some instances, hunter-gatherers did not meet the numerical requirements to constitute a village; however, in 2011 the Hadzabe had been granted a collective community land certificate. Recently, pastoralist and hunter-gatherer organizations had participated actively in the drafting of the Constitution. Her Government reaffirmed its commitment to support development initiatives that addressed the needs of minority groups.
21. Mr. Patriota (Brazil) said that his Government had long endorsed the notion that indigenous peoples should be able to participate in the preparatory process of the World Conference and contribute to the outcome document. The report of the Secretary-General should provide insight on how to grant inclusive and comprehensive representation to indigenous peoples around the world. Brazil also anticipated a time when
the participation of indigenous peoples and their institutions at in the meetings of relevant United Nations bodies would no longer be a matter for ad hoc consideration and negotiation. Brazil had upheld the needs and aspirations of indigenous peoples in the negotiations on the outcome document and had engaged in frank dialogue directly with various indigenous groups, including the Global Coordination Group. In July 2014, Brazil had joined the Group of Friends of the Conference to better understand and communicate the demands of indigenous peoples worldwide.
22. His Government was committed to the promotion and protection of the cultural diversity and rights of indigenous people, in accordance with its commitment to the concept of equal opportunities for all Brazilians. Over 800,000 Brazilians identified themselves as members of over 300 indigenous peoples, speaking 270 different languages; indigenous land amounted to over 12 per cent of the national territory. The 1988 Constitution and subsequent legislation were consistent with key provisions of the Declaration. Efforts to enforce the rights of indigenous peoples included the establishment in 2006 of the National Commission on Indigenous Policy with a view to promoting full and active participation by indigenous peoples in the formulation and implementation of public policies that concerned them. An inter-ministerial working group was currently drafting specific regulations to implement the provisions of ILO Convention No. 169. The National Policy of Healthcare for Indigenous Peoples paid special attention to traditional knowledge, medicines and practices of indigenous peoples.
23. It was clear that, without the full exercise of indigenous rights, development would be unsustainable. His delegation therefore believed that the aspirations of indigenous people should be mainstreamed into national policies and strategies aimed at achieving the Sustainable Development Goals. The post-2015 development agenda must take into account the needs and views of indigenous peoples.
24. Mr. Barros Melet (Chile) said that his Government sought to develop a relationship with its indigenous peoples based on the respect for their individual and collective rights, participation, and the elimination of all forms of marginalization, racism and discrimination. In that connection, his Government had identified four priority areas of action: political,
14-62976
5/9
A/C.3/69/SR.20
legislative and institutional reform; land and water; sectoral policies and law and order, and the rights of indigenous peoples. The Ministry of Indigenous Peoples and the Council on Indigenous Peoples had been established, and indigenous affairs units had been incorporated into all ministries.
25. The outcome document of the World Conference had benefited from the participation of indigenous peoples from all regions of the world. Member States must fulfil their commitment to consider measures to enable indigenous peoples and their representatives to participate in relevant United Nations bodies in those issues that affected them. In the meantime, States should increase their contributions to the Voluntary Fund.
26. Due consideration should be given to the rights of indigenous peoples in the elaboration of the post-2015 development agenda. In Chile, as in other countries, the indigenous peoples lagged behind considerably in development indicators compared with other groups of the population. In view of the significant contribution made by indigenous people to sustainable development their needs must be taken into account in the development framework. His Government believed that cultivating the trust of indigenous peoples in a spirit of cooperation, consultation and good faith was fundamental to the realization of their rights and the building of inclusive, tolerant societies that recognized and valued the potential of their diversity.
27. Ms. Mballa Eyenga (Cameroon) said that progress made toward the goals of the Decade had been modest. Many indigenous communities continued to suffer the consequences of, inter alia, the militarization of their territories, overexploitation of their resources, climate change, political marginalization, economic underdevelopment and social and cultural discrimination. The adoption of the Declaration and the convening of the first World Conference on Indigenous Peoples,, with the large-scale participation of indigenous peoples' representatives, had been important landmarks in the recognition and promotion of indigenous peoples' rights. The positive measures and reforms undertaken by Member States also represented encouraging progress. In Cameroon and other African countries, a “national” concept of indigeneity, according to which indigenous identity was linked to one's place of origin or the historic homeland of one's ethnic group, was predominant. Her country noted with satisfaction the recommendation contained in the report of the Special Rapporteur on the rights of indigenous
peoples (A/69/267) that self-identification should be used as a key criterion for the identification of indigenous peoples.
28. Cameroon was taking steps to combat discrimination and marginalization and promote the well-being of all communities. Her Government had commissioned studies to determine the potential indigenous status of certain groups. Meanwhile a national consensus had been reached on the indigenous status of Pygmies under international law and measures were being undertaken to promote and protect their rights. Her country had established a national participatory development programme to improve Pygmy children's access to schooling, provide drinking water and promote awareness of hygiene and sanitation, and had implemented a development plan aimed at building administrative capacity to protect the rights and interests of Pygmies. Additional measures had included the creation of educational priority zones in regions with substantial indigenous populations, the integration of Pygmy history and culture in all primary and some secondary school curricula, and the provision of Efforts were also being made instruction in local languages. In keeping with the Declaration, Cameroon had undertaken to improve consultation and cooperation with indigenous populations in its forestry, mining and other sectors based on an approach that promoted dialogue, transparency, participation, good governance and partnership. Her Government had established mechanisms to enable greater involvement of local communities in forestry and forest resource management and was undertaking a review of its Forest Law with the participation of indigenous peoples and their representatives.
29. There was an urgent need to achieve consensus on the concept indigeneity, for which there was no internationally agreed definition It was crucial that the application of the provisions of the Declaration relating to self-determination and ownership of natural resources did not violate its article 46, concerning the territorial integrity and political unity of sovereign States, which were particularly fragile in Africa. States must strike a delicate balance between the political, economic and social integration of indigenous peoples and the preservation of their identity and way of life in order to avoid both the risk of assimilation and that of marginalization. A differentiated approach must be taken, that took into account specific national contexts, historical realities and economic conditions. Special
6/9
14-62976
A/C.3/69/SR.20
attention must be given to the particular vulnerability of indigenous populations to the ecological damage caused by climate change. Cameroon therefore hoped that targeted solutions would be developed on the basis of the outcome of Climate Summit 2014.
30. Ms. Luchka (Ukraine) said that Ukraine was strongly committed to the implementation of the outcome document of the World Conference, which constituted an action-oriented and inclusive framework for global efforts to promote the rights of groups that were facing increasing challenges to the preservation of their identities and fulfilment of their social, economic and cultural needs. Having endorsed the Declaration, Ukraine had undertaken practical steps to guarantee the rights of the indigenous peoples of Crimea, primarily the Tatars.
31. The occupation of Crimea by the Russian Federation had created a situation of tension, aggression and discrimination that had undermined the former prevailing atmosphere of tolerance in the peninsula and led to the curtailment of the Tatars' cultural, linguistic and political rights and freedoms. Entire chapters of reports by international organizations and monitoring missions were devoted to ill-treatment and repression by the Russian authorities of Crimea's indigenous peoples, primarily Crimean Tatars and ethnic Ukrainians. The Tatars faced forced exile, residential searches, disregard for their indigenous status, and systematic abuse of their civil, political and cultural rights. Their human rights activists were being threatened, tortured and murdered, and their leaders were being denied access to the region. Their ownership rights had been violated through illegal nationalization and seizures of Crimean property and the activities of the so-called Crimean self-defence forces. The introduction of legislation of the Russian Federation, in violation of General Assembly resolution 68/262, continued to curtail their freedoms of expression, peaceful assembly and association, religion and belief, and law enforcement personnel continued to conduct property searches, notably among the Crimean Tatar and Ukrainian populations, under the pretext of looking for extremist material. The persistence of those inhuman and criminal practices was especially regrettable on the seventieth anniversary of the Crimean Tatars' deportation from Crimea by the Soviet Union.
32. Ukraine was making every effort to assist the Tatar population by facilitating the access of internally
displaced persons to housing, medical assistance, social protection and education. The Presidential Commissioner on Crimean Tatar Affairs had established an institute in Kyiv to preserve and promote the ethnic, cultural, linguistic and religious identity of the Crimean Tatars within Ukraine, and structures were in place to enable those persons to report human rights violations and apply for legal aid. Collection of evidence, including official correspondence and witness reports, was being conducted on the ground. Ukraine urged all United Nations entities and Member States to stand in solidarity with the Crimean Tatars against repression, hatred and intolerance, and looked forward to working with the international community to make the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous People a reality.
33. Ms. del Aguila Castillo (Guatemala) said that Guatemala was firmly committed to the promotion and protection of the rights of indigenous peoples. It stressed the need for the active participation of indigenous peoples in United Nations discussions on issues affecting their lives and their development, particularly that of women, youth and children.
34. Guatemala's national development agenda up to 2032, which comprised five main policy axes, provided for support of indigenous peoples' rights, lifestyles, customs and social structures in the creation of a pluralistic State. To implement that agenda, her country had developed a range of mechanisms and reforms aimed at eliminating racism, promoting interculturality and indigenous rights and guaranteeing migrant rights, in addition to environmental, youth and crime prevention policies. Guatemala supported the statement contained in the report of the Special Rapporteur on the rights of indigenous peoples (A/69/267) that measures undertaken to achieve indigenous peoples' rights should involve those peoples in global efforts to improve their living conditions while respecting their right to define and pursue their self-determined development path and priorities in order to safeguard their cultural integrity and strengthen their potential for sustainable development. Those measures should also adhere to the principles of non-discrimination and selfdetermination contained in the Declaration. Bearing in mind that sustainable development was impossible without the full participation of indigenous peoples, efforts to strengthen governance structures and indigenous institutions should be intensified.
14-62976
7/9
A/C.3/69/SR.20
35. While the adoption of the Declaration had led to important progress toward the protection of indigenous peoples' rights, much remained to be done. Measures needed to be taken to strengthen indigenous forms of governance, promote the participation of indigenous women in decision-making and the political participation of youth, and improve the access of women, youth and children to information and communication technologies and promote youth employment. Indigenous persons with disabilities, who were often marginalized by their own communities, must not be neglected.
36. Ms. Ruin (Costa Rica) said that the international community should take advantage of the momentum generated by the World Conference to accelerate the achievement of the commitments set out in the Declaration and in the outcome document; priority consideration should be given to the participation of indigenous peoples' representatives and institutions in United Nations meetings on topics that concerned them, the empowerment of indigenous women and the formulation and implementation of capacity- and leadership-building policies and programmes, the causes and consequences of violence against indigenous women and girls, and the incorporation of the rights of indigenous peoples in the post-2015 development agenda.
37. Costa Rica had a broad legislative framework recognizing the rights of indigenous peoples. It was a party to ILO Convention No. 169, and article 76 of its Constitution provided for the preservation and promotion of national indigenous languages. A significant amount of case law existed concerning the rights of indigenous peoples, including the right to land and communal property, the right to health, and the right to safe drinking water. Her Government had also initiated a constitutional reform process to affirm the multi-ethnic and multicultural character of the country and the principles of diversity and non-discrimination.
38. Ms. Flejzor (Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO)) said that the observance of World Food Day was a reminder of the pressing need to eradicate world hunger, an aim that could not be achieved without consideration for the needs, rights and contributions of indigenous peoples. While the progress made during the Decade was encouraging, substantial action still needed to be taken to guarantee recognition of indigenous peoples' tenure rights and apply the principle of free, prior and informed consent,
as well as to promote indigenous peoples' participation in decisions affecting their lives.
39. The Voluntary Guidelines on the Responsible Governance of Tenure of Land, Fisheries and Forests, the first global soft law instrument on tenure, which had been prepared with input from indigenous peoples, illustrated the widespread recognition of the fundamental importance of effective governance of tenure to ensuring food security. While the Guidelines contained a section on indigenous peoples' rights and customary tenure systems, including the cultural and spiritual significance of land, fisheries and forests, all the sections were relevant to strengthening tenure rights and should therefore be implemented in their entirety. Although their implementation was primarily a responsibility of States, their success depended upon the participation of all stakeholders, including indigenous peoples' representatives. To that end, the global awareness campaign conducted by FAO had proven remarkably effective. National and regional workshops were being conducted, and a number of resource partners were contributing to that first stage of implementation.
40. FAO was working with the Government of Sierra Leone, in assessing legislation that needed to be aligned with the Guidelines, and with multiple stakeholders in Liberia, to support the application of free, prior and informed consent for land investments. It was devoting particular attention to building the capacity of non-State actors on the use and application of the Guidelines, and was currently developing a practical manual on their use by non-governmental, civil society and far mers' organizations and indigenous peoples. Private sector entities had also pledged adherence to the Guidelines in their production processes. In the context of its plans for the development of tailored, national multi-stakeholder workshops on the governance of tenure in several countries, FAO invited Member States to communicate their interest in convening similar workshops in their countries.
41. A fairer world, free of hunger, poverty, discrimination and inequality, could not be realized without special consideration for the realities faced by indigenous peoples. The guidance afforded by their ancestral knowledge in addressing issues related to climate change, national resource management and sustainable development must be recognized, and their poverty and vulnerability must be addressed. FAO
8/9
14-62976
A/C.3/69/SR.20
would continue to provide full technical support for the removal of barriers impeding indigenous peoples' access to land, territory, national resources and sacred areas, and for the improvement of Member States' governance frameworks in order to realize a fairer, food-secure world.
42. Mr. Cassidy (International Labour Organization) said that the participation of indigenous peoples' representatives in the World Conference had greatly contributed to its success. ILO looked forward to working with indigenous peoples and their representatives to advance the implementation of a post-2015 development agenda that included the rights of indigenous peoples.
43. ILO Convention No. 169 concerning Indigenous and Tribal Peoples in Independent Countries had been the first binding international convention to recognize the aspirations of indigenous peoples; together with the Declaration, it formed the main pillar of the international framework for indigenous peoples' rights. ILO welcomed the call for broad ratification of that Convention, in consultation with indigenous peoples and workers' and employers' organizations, especially in Europe, Asia and Africa. Effective mechanisms needed to be established for consultation with indigenous peoples to ensure full respect for their rights at the national and regional levels, and institutional capacity-building was necessary to combat neglect and provide real opportunities for economic and social empowerment.
44. Indigenous people, particularly youth, were often forced to migrate domestically or internationally as a result of drastic changes to their livelihoods occasioned by, inter alia, loss of land, reduced access to natural resources and social services, and the impact of climate change. Indigenous women who migrated for domestic work were frequently at serious risk of violence and exploitation. Often restricted to casual or informal employment, indigenous people risked entrapment in a cycle of poverty, discrimination and exploitation. Limited access to culturally appropriate education and vocational training, a challenge faced particularly by girls, placed indigenous youth at a severe disadvantage in the labour market. ILO strongly supported an inclusive and participatory approach to development that promoted social dialogue and the empowerment of indigenous women. Support for the development of indigenous knowledge, skills and occupations was urgently needed and could help bolster social and
economic development through the integration of traditional livelihood strategies with new economic activities.
45. ILO tripartite constituents played an important role in the promotion and protection of indigenous peoples' rights and could provide training and skills development to help build their capacities. ILO had recently helped to develop a road map for strengthening alliances between the Latin American workers' movement and indigenous peoples. It looked forward to collaborating on the development of the system-wide action plan called for in the outcome document of the World Conference.
46. Mr. Repkov (Russian Federation), speaking in exercise of the right of reply, said that it was gratifying that the Ukrainian authorities were finally taking an interest in the affairs of indigenous peoples. It was to be hoped that there would be a positive effect on the situation of the various ethnic groups living in the territory of Ukraine. As far as the Crimean Tatars were concerned, during more than 20 years of independence, the Ukrainian authorities had not achieved a fraction of what had been done to improve the situation of the Crimean Tatars during the months that had gone by since the reunification of Crimea with the Russian Federation.
47. Serious problems involving ethnic minorities in Ukraine had been raised by the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination in 2011, and by the High Commissioner on National Minorities of the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe, following a visit to Ukraine in August 2013. Currently in the Republic of Crimea the Crimean Tatar language was recognized as an official language alongside the Russian and Ukrainian languages, and a decree had been signed on measures to rehabilitate the Crimean Tatar people and some other peoples and provide State support for their revival and development. The participation of Crimean Tatars in representative bodies had been ensured, and many other actions were being taken for the restoration of historical justice and the political, social and spiritual revival of the Crimean Tatars.
The meeting rose at 4.40 p.m.
14-62976
9/9