United Nations
A/C.3/71/SR.58
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
Official Records
Distr.: General 30 June 2017
Original: English
Third Committee
Summary record of the 58th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Wednesday, 31 May 2017, at 12.10 p.m.
Chair: Ms. Mej^a Velez (Colombia)
Contents
Agenda item 5: Election of the officers of the Main Committees
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Management Section (dms@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
17-08935 (E)
iiiiiiiiiiiiihiiiiiiiiii wwmmw
A/C.3/71/SR.58
The meeting was called to order at 12.10 p.m.
Agenda item 5: Election of the officers of the Main Committees
1. The Chair said that, in accordance with rule 99 (a) of the rules of procedure, the meeting had been convened for the purpose of electing the Chair and other members of the Bureau of the Committee for the seventy-second session of the General Assembly.
2. The nomination of Mr. Gunnarsson (Iceland) for the office of Chair had been endorsed by the Group of Western European and Other States. In the absence of further nominations, and in accordance with rule 103 of the rules of procedure, she would take it that the Committee wished to elect Mr. Gunnarsson (Iceland) Chair.
3. Mr. Gunnarsson (Iceland) was elected Chair by acclamation.
4. Mr. Gunnarsson (Iceland) said that he would make every effort to consolidate the progress that had been made in improving the working methods of the Committee.
5. The Chair said that the nominations of Mr. Idris (Eritrea), Ms. Al-Temimi (Qatar) and Ms. Kaszas (Hungary) for the three offices of Vice-Chair had been endorsed by the Group of African States, the Group of Asia-Pacific States and the Group of Eastern European States, respectively.
6. Mr. Idris (Eritrea), Ms. Al-Temimi (Qatar) and Ms. Kaszas (Hungary) were elected Vice-Chairs by acclamation.
7. The Chair said that the nomination of Ms. del Aguila Castillo (Guatemala) for the office of Rapporteur had been endorsed by the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States.
8. Ms. del Aguila Castillo (Guatemala) was elected Rapporteur by acclamation.
The meeting rose at 12.20p.m.
2/2
17-08935