United Nations
A/C.3/70/SR.45
General Assembly
Seventieth session
Official Records
Distr.: General 3 December 2015
Original: English
Third Committee
Summary record of the 45th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Tuesday, 10 November 2015, at 3 p.m.
Chair: Mr. Mohamed (Vice-Chair) (Guyana)
Contents
Agenda item 70: Elimination of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and
related intolerance (continued)
(a) Elimination of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance (continued)
Agenda item 71: Right of peoples to self-determination (continued)
Agenda item 72: Promotion and protection of human rights (continued)
(b) Human rights questions, including alternative approaches for improving the effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms (continued)
(c) Human rights situations and reports of special rapporteurs and representatives (continued)
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Control Unit (srcorrections@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
15-19638 (E)
in ii 11 in rnwmv
A/C.3/70/SR.45
In the absence of Mr. Hilale (Morocco), Mr Mohamed (Guyana), Vice-Chair, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.
Agenda item 70: Elimination of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance
(continued)
(a) Elimination of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance (continued)
(A/C.3/70/L.59)
Draft resolution A/C.3/70/L.59: Combating glorification of Nazism, neo -Nazism and other practices that contribute to fuelling contemporary forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance
1. Mr. Lukiyantsev (Russian Federation), introducing the draft resolution, said that Angola, Brazil, Cote d'Ivoire, Kazakhstan, Mauritania, Myanmar, Namibia and Zimbabwe had joined the sponsors.
2. Seventy years since the defeat of Nazism in the Second World War, attempts were still being made to falsify history. It was unacceptable to attempt to revise or downplay the assessment of that ideology as set out in the documents of the Nuremberg Trials. The sponsors of the draft resolution were deeply concerned at the alarming growth of extremist groups, including Neo-Nazis and “skinheads”, who had committed violent acts against persons on account of skin colour or faith, and against immigrants and minorities. The recommendations of the Special Rapporteur on contemporary forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance in that regard had been considered in the preparation of the draft resolution.
3. The aforementioned extremist groups took inspiration from the ideology and practices prevalent during the Second World War. It was entirely unacceptable that those involved in the crimes of Nazism should be glorified or that their guilt should be minimized, as had occurred in the case of members of the SS, declared by the Nuremberg Tribunal to be a criminal organization.
4. The sponsors of the draft resolution regularly witnessed the destruction or desecration of monuments erected in remembrance of those who had fought
against Nazism, while monuments for Nazis were erected and those who had collaborated with fascists against the anti-Hitler coalition were declared participants in national liberation movements. Such actions were not only blasphemous with regard to veterans of the anti-fascist movement, but also played into the hands of those who advocated “racial purity” and discrimination on racial or ethnic grounds, not to mention the poor example they gave to the younger generation.
5. The Nuremberg Trials had clearly and unequivocally condemned the crimes of those who had violated the rights and dignity of persons and denied the principle of equality of persons regardless of their race, ethnicity, religion or language. The support of Member States for the draft resolution would be symbolic in the year of the seventieth anniversary of victory in the Second World War, the establishment of the United Nations and the initiation of the Nuremberg Trials, since without that victory Member States might not have had the opportunity to discuss human rights issues.
6. Mr. Khane (Secretary of the Committee) said that Bangladesh, Burundi, Congo, Mali, Niger and Uganda had become sponsors of the draft resolution.
Agenda item 71: Right of peoples to self determination (continued) (A/C.3/70/L.60)
Draft resolution A/C.3/70/L.60: Universal realization of the right ofpeoples to self-determination
7. Mr. Khan (Pakistan), introducing the draft resolution, said that the text of the draft resolution remained unchanged from the resolution adopted by consensus the previous year, with technical updates only. In the text, the General Assembly would reaffirmed the right to self-determination as a fundamental human right and as a precondition for the effective guarantee and observance of other human rights, declare its opposition to acts of foreign occupation and military intervention which suppressed the right to self-determination and deplore the plight of refugees and internally displaced persons who had been uprooted as a result of such acts.
8. Mr. Khane (Secretary of the Committee) said that Albania, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burundi, Central African Republic, Congo, Cote d'Ivoire, Eritrea, Liberia, Maldives,
2/5
15-19638
A/C.3/70/SR.45
Namibia, Somalia, South Sudan, Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe had become sponsors of the draft resolution.
Agenda item 72: Promotion and protection of human rights (continued)
(b) Human rights questions, including alternative approaches for improving the effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms (continued) (A/C.3/70/L.53)
Draft resolution A/C.3/70/L.53: Subregional Centre for Human Rights and Democracy in Central Africa
9. Ms. Mballa Eyenga (Cameroon), introducing the draft resolution, said that the aim of the draft resolution was to hold the Subregional Centre for Human Rights and Democracy in Central Africa accountable for activities undertaken on the ground and to continue to ensure the support of Member States. The Centre's cooperation with Member States and civil society fostered the further development of a culture of human rights and democracy in central Africa with a view to promoting sustainable peace and development in the subregion.
10. The Centre's approach sought to integrate human rights into economic affairs and development through awareness-raising activities targeted to public authorities and businesses regarding their duties and obligations, in accordance with the guiding United Nations principles on businesses and human rights. It was hoped that, in the event that the reforms proposed by the High Commissioner for Human Rights were successful, the Secretary-General and the High Commissioner would continue to provide the Centre with sufficient means to enable it to respond to the growing needs to promote and protect human rights, and to develop a culture of democracy and the rule of law in States in the sub-region. It was essential that the Centre and States in the sub-region should work in synergy and that, in defining its priorities, the Centre should consider the needs and requests of those States.
11. The draft resolution was based on resolution 68/174, with only technical updates in the second and sixth paragraphs of the preamble and the deletion of several paragraphs that were no longer relevant. Four new preambular paragraphs were proposed, including the seventh and eighth. States in the sub -region called upon the international community to assist in eradicating Boko Haram.
12. Mr. Khane (Secretary of the Committee) said that Algeria, Cote d'Ivoire, Ethiopia, Madagascar, Mali, Morocco, Namibia, Niger, Tunisia and Uganda had become sponsors of the draft resolution.
Agenda item 72 (c): Promotion and protection of human rights: human rights situations and reports of special rapporteurs and representatives
Draft resolution A/C.3/70/L.47: Situation of human rights in the Syrian Arab Republic
13. Mr. Al-Hamadi (Qatar) said that Albania, Andorra, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Comoros, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Czech Republic, Georgia, Latvia, Libya, Lithuania, Mauritania, Monaco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, San Marino, Slovakia, Somalia and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia had become sponsors of the draft resolution.
14. The human rights and humanitarian situation in the Syrian Arab Republic had reached a new low. The draft resolution reflected the current situation and developments since the adoption of the previous year's version. The balanced text had not lost sight of the nature of the violations and their victims, the majority of which had fallen as a result of indiscriminate shelling, disproportionate use of force and the use of barrel bombs in civilian areas.
15. All parties, including the Syrian authorities, should immediately put an end to all violations and forms of violence. The draft resolution addressed the need for accountability and condemned terrorist acts and violence against civilians committed by Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), the Nusrah Front, militias fighting for the regime and other extremist and armed opposition groups. It also noted the impact of the Syrian crisis on the region and the world, including the refugee issue, and reaffirmed the commitment to finding a political solution, in the absence of which the humanitarian crisis would continue. His delegation hoped that the draft resolution would contribute to putting an end to the violations committed against the Syrian people since 2011.
16. Mr. Khane (Secretary of the Committee) said that Norway had become a sponsor of the draft resolution.
15-19638
3/5
A/C.3/70/SR.45
17. Mr. Qassem Agha (Syrian Arab Republic) expressed great regret that some delegations took advantage of the Committee's proceedings to serve their political aims, diverting attention from its social and humanitarian goals to target specific countries. It was ironic that Qatar should introduce a resolution criticizing the human rights situation in Syria on behalf of Saudi Arabia, which was loath to address its own dire human rights issues, and a host of other countries that politicized human rights issues in line with their interventionist agenda. As the self-appointed spokesperson for the Syrian people, the Saudi Arabian regime clamouring for a pluralistic State that respected the rights of women was the same regime that prevented its own people from participating in political life and denied women full citizenship rights. That country's shameful fatwas forbidding women from riding a bicycle, driving a car, traveling or participating in litigation made it the laughing stock of the world. The Qatari regime, a state sponsor of takfirist terrorism that continued to live in the Middle Ages, lacking a domestic constitution, had no business mentioning human rights. Its so-called democratic ruling institution had relied on what had been referred to as a democratic coup, and the Qatari public had been the last to know. The delegation of Qatar should instead review its well documented support for global terrorism, attested to in United Nations reports, which had confirmed Qatar's involvement in financing terrorism in Libya. The Letfallah vessel accident had provided evidence that the regime had sent ammunition to Syria through Lebanese ports.
18. Saudi Arabia and Qatar continued to foment violence and bloodshed in Syria by supporting such terrorist groups as the Nusrah Front and occasionally providing them with chemical weapons. In addition, terrorist fatwas from Saudi and Qatari sheikhs who promoted factional strife declared that Syria was an occupied territory and that jihad against its Government was a religious duty enjoined by God, when in fact the devils of the Qatari and Saudi regimes were intent on interfering in Syria's internal affairs. Those sheikhs were blind to the truth that Palestine, the Golan Heights and parts of the south of Lebanon were the only occupied territories in defence of which resistance was warranted. His delegation therefore cautioned Member States not to fall for the Saudi Qatari ideological perversion, which failed to take into account the principled position of the Non-Aligned
Movement on country-specific resolutions on human rights situations.
19. Mr. Hassani-Nejad (Islamic Republic of Iran), speaking in exercise of the right of reply, said that paragraphs 14 and 16 of the draft resolution were particularly troubling, as they contravened the basic principles of customary law by characterizing the Al-Quds Brigades and the Islamic Revolutionary Guard, which were parts of the regular armed forces of his country, as foreign terrorist fighters. Units of those forces were assisting the internationally recognized Syrian Government at its formal invitation on a strictly advisory basis in its legitimate fight against ISIL and the Nusrah Front, both of which were recognized as terrorist groups by the United Nations. Furthermore, the claims that such involvement further exacerbated the deteriorating situation in the Syrian Arab Republic were baseless. On the contrary, the groups assisting the Syrian Government were law-abiding, disciplined entities working to restore law and order and prevent extremists from further destroying the country. The draft resolution sought to deny a Member State the right to establish peace on its territory by asking for outside assistance, and blurred the lines between terrorists and those who fought them. As such, the paragraphs in question were a gift to extremists and their supporters. It was unacceptable for the Committee to venture outside its purview in a manner that would create a dangerous precedent. His delegation therefore expected others to reject the controversial provisions.
20. Mr. Choe Myong Nam (Democratic People's Republic of Korea), speaking in exercise of the right of reply, said that his delegation maintained a position of principle against country-specific resolutions introduced without the consent of the concerned countries. Human rights issues should be resolved through dialogue and cooperation rather than coercion and confrontation. The universal periodic review mechanism provided the best means of discussing country-specific issues in a fair, objective and impartial manner.
21. Mr. Al-Hamadi (Qatar), speaking in exercise of the right of reply, said that the Syrian regime persisted in attempting to divert attention from the war crimes and crimes against humanity that it had committed against its own people since 2011. Nevertheless, such spurious allegations would not deter his country from working with the international community to put an end to the savage violations committed against the
4/5
15-19638
A/C.3/70/SR.45
Syrian people. It was ironic that the Syrian regime condemned both Syrians demanding their legitimate rights and those States who criticized repression of those demands while it itself was perpetrating one of the ugliest forms of state terrorism. The Syrian regime's appalling crimes, which had been documented by the United Nations, included the use of such prohibited weapons as chemical weapons and barrel bombs against civilians, with grave security repercussions for the region and the world.
22. Qatar condemned all forms of terrorism and was known for its respect for international law, United Nations resolutions, human rights and peaceful settlement of conflicts. It was committed to finding a political solution to the Syrian conflict on the basis of the Geneva Declaration of 30 June 2012, one that preserved Syria's sovereignty and unity, and ensured accountability for all the crimes committed against the Syrian people.
23. Mr. Qassem Agha (Syrian Arab Republic), speaking in exercise of the right of reply, said that Saudi Arabia's demands for human rights were noteworthy given that the country was not yet a party to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which had entered into force in 1976. Syria had ratified the Covenant in 1969, before its entry into force and before Qatar had gained its independence from the United Kingdom. The comparison was important for Member States seeking the truth behind the draft resolution that was directed against his country.
The meeting rose at 4 p.m.
15-19638
5/5