United Nations
A/C.3/72/SR.5
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
Official Records
Distr.: General 11 November 2017
Original: English
Third Committee
Summary record of the 5th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Wednesday, 4 October 2017, at 10 a.m.
Chair: Ms. Kaszas (Vice-Chair) (Hungary)
later: Mr. Gunnarsson (Iceland)
later: Ms. Kaszas (Vice-Chair) (Hungary)
Contents
Agenda item 107: Crime prevention and criminal justice Agenda item 108: International drug control
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Management Section (dms@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
17-17449 (E)
iiii iiii in ii iiiii iiiii in
A/C.3/72/SR.5
In the absence of Mr. Gunnarsson (Iceland), Ms. Kaszas (Hungary), Vice-Chair, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10 a.m.
Agenda item 107: Crime prevention and criminal justice (A/72/125 and A/72/91)
Agenda item 108: International drug control
(A/72/225)
1. Mr. Lemahieu (Director of Policy Analysis and Public Affairs, United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC)), speaking via video link, said that UNODC had consolidated and strengthened its responses to the enormous challenges of drugs, organized crime, corruption and terrorism over the previous year. It had worked closely with United Nations partners and civil society to assist Member States in the implementation of the recommendations of the outcome document adopted at the special session of the General Assembly on the world drug problem, held in April 2016. The Commission on Narcotic Drugs had agreed at its sixtieth session on a follow -up process based on the seven thematic areas outlined in the outcome document and had adopted a resolution on preparations for 2019, the target date set in the Political Declaration and Plan of Action on International Cooperation towards an Integrated and Balanced Strategy to Counter the World Drug Problem.
2. Since the seventy-first session of the General Assembly, UNODC had worked closely with the World Health Organization (WHO) to offer drug treatment, care and rehabilitation services to twenty-three countries. The Office had also provided gender responsive and human rights-based HIV prevention and treatment for drug users in communities and prisons and was currently active in over 60 ports worldwide, having enlarged its joint container control programme with the World Customs Organization.
3. UNODC was tackling the links between drugs and other crimes by carrying out asset recovery measures, running innovative cryptocurrency training courses and building cooperation among partners and Member States. Its Global SMART Programme supported research and analysis into new psychoactive substances and amphetamine-type stimulants. It also continued to provide information on illicit crops in Asia and Latin America and, in its flagship publication, the World Drug Report, on trends and movements in illicit drugs. Efforts to convince farmers of illicit crops to embrace alternative development programmes were ongoing in Afghanistan, the Plurinational State of Bolivia, Colombia, Laos, Myanmar and Peru.
Cooperation and coordination could be strengthened if Member States assumed common and shared responsibility for the world drug problem.
4. UNODC had continued to contribute to progress towards the achievement of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, particularly Goal 16 on peaceful and inclusive societies. The 2030 Agenda recognized the connections between sustainable development and drugs and crime. UNODC was working with Member States to understand the nature of threats which they faced, so as to address them within the context of the Goals. One key challenge was the related nature of threats, such as the connection between migrant smuggling and human trafficking; terrorism and trafficking in cultural property; and the disturbing overall relationship between terrorists and criminals. UNODC had helped the Security Council and the General Assembly to appreciate those links and worked hard to connect the need to tackle terrorism and crime with overall efforts to achieve peace and development. The 2016 New York Declaration for Refugees and Migrants recognized the value of the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and its Protocols on migrant smuggling and trafficking in persons. The high-level meeting of the General Assembly on the appraisal of the United Nations Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons also acknowledged that conflict and economic uncertainty were drivers of such crimes.
5. It was the duty of UNODC to ensure the full implementation of protocols, protect victims and uphold justice and the rule of law. It had provided support to anti-corruption efforts in forty countries over the previous year. In November 2017, it would hold the seventh session of the Conference of the States Parties to the United Nations Convention against Corruption, which would send a powerful message about full implementation of the Convention and its direct connection to the promotion of sustainable development.
6. UNODC was making progress in its initiative to combat foreign terrorist fighters and was helping countries to deal with violent extremism in prisons and elsewhere. It had also enhanced its partnerships with the Counter-Terrorism Committee Executive Directorate (CTED) and the Office of Counter-Terrorism. With regard to criminal justice responses, UNODC was mandated to support effective, fair and humane criminal justice systems by protecting the rights of defendants and supporting the interests of victims and witnesses. It was attempting to stamp out violence against women and young girls and building youth resilience to crime by addressing vulnerabilities in the development of
2/17
17-17449
A/C.3/72/SR.5
young people and helping them to prevent choices that lead to crime and substance abuse.
7. UNODC also addressed new and emerging crimes. Its Global Maritime Crime Programme advocated prison reform, cracking down on increasing levels of piracy off the coast of Somalia and fighting heroin trafficking at sea. It had also made significant accomplishments in the Sahel Programme and in programmes to combat cybercrime, particularly child exploitation and ransomware; trafficking in cultural property; and environmental crime.
8. The Office took accountability seriously and its independent evaluation function helped to improve its activities, encourage the sharing of best practices and build trust with Member States. At the direction of the Executive Director, UNODC had taken steps to improve gender equality among its staff.
9. Extrabudgetary funding had increased by 300 per cent in the previous decade, which indicated a vote of confidence by Member States. Given that trust, UNODC was always seeking to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of its financial and programme management practices. However, stable funding for core staff and activities was a small and declining part of the budget. Unearmarked contributions had fallen precipitously and general purpose funding was predicted to make up less than one percent of the total income of UNODC in 2017. Regular budget allocations accounted for less than 1 per cent of the total United Nations regular budget and made up only 7 percent of the entire budget for the Office. It was therefore difficult to sustain a number of country and regional offices crucial for implementing the numerous mandates of UNODC. An increase in regular budget resources, general purpose contributions and other “soft” earmarked funding would ensure that the Office could manage core activities and initiatives, conduct research, set standards and respond to emerging challenges.
10. Mr. Rios Sanchez (Mexico) said that his delegation was pleased that the intersessional meetings of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs had incorporated some of the best practices of the special session, such as promoting the participation of civil society, international organizations and academia.
11. The alignment of the international drugs policy with the 2030 Agenda was certainly crucial. The World Drug Report 2016 included useful best practices for cooperation between Member States and emphasized the need to collect disaggregated data and tailor innovative responses to specific population groups. He
advocated adopting such as approaches systematically rather than as one-off measures.
12. He asked what efforts UNODC had made to encourage relevant United Nations bodies to identify and commence implementing recommendations made in the outcome document of the special session that fell under their area of specialization, as recommended in General Assembly resolution 71/211.
13. Mr. Lemahieu (Director of Policy Analysis and Public Affairs, UNODC) said that Member States' efforts to implement the 2030 Agenda and fulfil the recommendations of the outcome document of the special session were closely linked. UNODC had been very active in supporting such efforts, not least by becoming custodian of over 50 indicators monitoring progress towards the 2030 Agenda, in coordination with the United Nations Statistical Commission. The Secretary-General had shown a keen interest in work on drugs and crime by issuing a decision entrusting UNODC to ensure that other United Nations agencies were participating in global efforts. The attendance of many such bodies in the intersessional meetings of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs was a sign of their increased involvement.
14. Mr. Rattray (Jamaica), speaking on behalf of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), said that CARICOM member States faced significant challenges to achieving sustainable development because of the immediate and significant threat of transnational organized crime, especially trafficking in drugs and persons, the illegal trade in small arms and ammunition, and money laundering. The highly indebted small island States in the region were compelled to divert resources from vital development activities, such as education, health care and infrastructure development, to combatting crime.
15. In early 2017, Heads of Government of CARICOM member States had reaffirmed their commitment to combatting transnational organized crime and reducing its impact on the region under the CARICOM Crime and Security Strategy. In line with the Strategy, CARICOM had expanded its advance passenger information system; established an advance cargo information system; finalized a regional counterterrorism strategy; and continued to work on a maritime and airspace security cooperation agreement. CARICOM, which had greatly benefited from international collaboration in all its achievements, called on its development partners to expand information sharing, capacity building and technical assistance. Successful partnerships would make the region safer and its borders more secure, thereby
17-17449
3/17
A/C.3/72/SR.5
fostering an enabling environment for investment, economic growth and development.
16. The world drug problem was a common and shared responsibility that required a comprehensive and multifaceted response. CARICOM was committed to the implementation of an integrated, balanced and effective drug control strategy based on strengthened international cooperation across the seven thematic areas reflected in the outcome document of the special session. Since it was important to broaden participation and engagement in the wake of the special meeting, CARICOM welcomed the webcasting of the intersessional meetings of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs in September and hoped that subsequent meetings would also be made available online.
17. Illicit drug use and trafficking could not be overcome without a global, well-coordinated and strategic plan. The Commission on Narcotic Drugs should give early consideration to the follow-up to the 2009 Political Declaration and Plan of Action, which had thus far guided collective actions in keeping with the aims of the three main international drugs conventions. It was vital to examine the trajectory of the new strategy and ensure that it would provide leeway for policies to be crafted which were tailored to national situations.
18. CARICOM emphasized the need for broad coordination and collaboration among United Nations agencies engaged in actions related to the world drug problem. The Commission on Narcotic Drugs might be the United Nations policymaking body with primary responsibility for drug control, but regional and international organizations, international financial institutions, civil society and the private and public sectors all played a critical role in shaping a full and effective response. While mandates should be respected, the drug control policy must be people centred, considerate of human rights and public health considerations, and address illicit activities related to drug trafficking and drug use. UNODC, in particular, must be provided with adequate, predictable and stable resources to enable it to undertake the activities within its mandate, especially in its role of supporting Member States' capacity-building requirements and cooperating with regional bodies.
19. Mr Gunnarsson (Iceland) took the Chair
20. Mr. Teo (Singapore), speaking on behalf of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), said that ASEAN was committed to working with the international community to combat transnational crime and, over the past five decades, had stood steadfast in its commitment to ensure that its region was safe from
the threats of transnational crime, terrorism and drugs. At the eleventh ASEAN Ministerial Meeting on Transnational Crime, ASEAN had consolidated and renewed its commitment to combating transnational crime. The ASEAN Plan of Action to Combat Transnational Crime encouraged a cohesive regional strategy to prevent, control and neutralize transnational crimes. At the thirty-seventh Conference of the ASEAN Association of Heads of Police, the improved database system of the Association, which would improve connectivity and the flow of information among ASEAN law enforcement agencies, had been noted as an innovation in fighting crime.
21. In response to the threat of terrorism in the region, ASEAN had adopted the revised ASEAN Comprehensive Plan of Action on Counter-Terrorism and the Manila Declaration to Counter the Rise of Radicalization and Violent Extremism in September 2017. The ASEAN Convention against Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children had entered into force in 2017, supplemented by the ASEAN Plan of Action against Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children, which provided specific action plans to guide member States in the effective implementation of the Convention. At the eleventh ASEAN Ministerial Meeting on Transnational Crime, the cross-sectoral Bohol Trafficking in Persons Workplan had been developed to harmonize all ASEAN programmes relating to trafficking in persons and efforts across ASEAN sectoral bodies and organs to implement the Convention.
22. With the rise of digital literacy and the increase in Internet connectivity in South-East Asia, the threats posed by cybercrime had intensified. Recognizing the importance of securing a safer cyberspace, ASEAN had established a working group on cybercrime in 2014. In March 2017, it had adopted the ASEAN Cybersecurity Cooperation Strategy with a view to enhancing the capacity of ASEAN to address cyberthreats. At the ASEAN Ministerial Conference on Cybersecurity in 2017, a round table meeting had been convened to bring together prosecutors to discuss cybercrime and share best practices and the ASEAN Declaration to Prevent and Combat Cybercrime had been endorsed. In April 2017, the International Criminal Police Organization (INTERPOL) had led an operation targeting cybercriminals in the region, which had resulted in the successful identification and taking down of more than 9,000 malware-hosting servers and hundreds of compromised websites.
23. In the face of the rise in methamphetamine production in Asia, as noted in the UNODC World Drug Report 2017, ASEAN countries remained united
4/17
17-17449
A/C.3/72/SR.5
in their zero -tolerance approach to drugs. In 2016, ASEAN had adopted its Workplan on Securing Communities against Illicit Drugs for the period 20162025 and had made steady progress towards achieving its vision of a drug-free ASEAN community. In 2017, ASEAN had launched a cooperation plan to tackle illicit drug production and trafficking in the Golden Triangle to stem the flow of narcotics from the region.
24. ASEAN strongly supported the centrality of the three international drug control conventions, which remained relevant and would continue to serve as the cornerstone of global drug policy. ASEAN pledged its continued support to the Commission on Narcotic Drugs and looked forward to continuing its cooperation with the United Nations, in particular with UNODC, to share best practices and find effective strategies to eradicate illicit drugs and international crime.
25. ASEAN had made strides towards building an integrated, peaceful and safe community. The ASEAN Community Vision 2025, which was complementary to the 2030 Agenda, demonstrated the region's commitment to leave no one behind. As it worked to achieve that vision, ASEAN would continue to work closely as a community to keep its people and region safe and enable its citizens to live full lives without fear of terrorism, transnational crimes or drugs.
26. Mr. Whiteley (Observer for the European Union), speaking also on behalf of the candidate countries Turkey, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbia and Albania, the country of the stabilization and association process and potential candidate Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as Ukraine, the Republic of Moldova, Armenia and Georgia, said that transnational organized crime continued to pose a serious threat to human security, democratic governance, socioeconomic development, the rule of law, and peace and security worldwide. Cross-border threats could be countered only through effective judicial and law enforcement cooperation between States and regional organizations. It was currently more urgent than ever to examine how law enforcement cooperation could be developed to fight against organized crime.
27. The European Union reaffirmed the importance of the Organized Crime Convention and its Protocols in combating existing and emerging forms of transnational organized crime and called on all States to implement them in full. Such instruments were also of growing relevance in countering migrant smugglers and protecting migrants against human trafficking. The European Union appreciated the political support and substantial number of ratifications of the Convention
and called on all remaining States which had not yet signed, ratified or implemented them to do so as soon as possible. He also welcomed the continuing process to establish a review mechanism.
28. The links between transnational organized crime and international terrorism had been evident for some time. It was vital to actively counter all sources, techniques and channels of terrorist financing and to implement Security Council Resolution 1373 (2001) on terrorism financing and Financial Action Task Force standards worldwide. Connections between terrorism and transnational organized crime must be dismantled.
29. Law enforcement action could no longer rely solely on the traditional reactive model. While States parties to the Convention were responsible for countering modern criminal threats on their own territory, they must also contribute to transnational efforts. Global policies should not allow any loopholes for modern-day criminality. Member States should therefore harmonize the definition of money laundering and related sanctions, extend legislation on cash controls to include cash shipped by freight or post and improve mutual recognition of criminal asset freezing and confiscation orders.
30. Europe and its neighbours continued to face a significant migration influx. Operations in the Mediterranean Sea had neutralized smugglers' vessels in full compliance with international law, including respect for human rights and safety at sea. The European Union called on Member States to spare no effort to eradicate human trafficking, including by implementing the Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, especially Women and Children; applying related standards and legal frameworks; working closely with UNODC; and remaining mindful of commitments under the New York Declaration for Migrants and Refugees. Children, women and girls were especially vulnerable and deserved special protection. He called for the widest possible application of the Protocol against the Smuggling of Migrants by Land, Sea and Air, supplementing the Organized Crime Convention, through a comprehensive, multidisciplinary and crossborder approach by countries of origin, transit and destination.
31. The European Union welcomed the inclusion in the 2030 Agenda of targets aimed at significantly reducing illicit financial and arms flows, strengthening the recovery and return of stolen assets and combating all forms of organized crime. The European Union and its Member States remained the largest contributor to
17-17449
5/17
A/C.3/72/SR.5
the funding of UNODC; they appreciated its valuable assistance in combating organized crime.
32. The European Union kept drug trafficking high on its agenda and took note of the pace at which new psychoactive substances were appearing, the role of the Internet, including the dark web, in the drug trade and drug-related crime, the use of the financial proceeds from drugs for terrorist purposes and the abuse of migrants for drug trafficking. A balanced and comprehensive approach to the world drug problem was the right way forward. The outcome document of the special session addressed both the supply and the demand side of the drug problem, on the basis of scientific evidence and facts, and not bias or social stigma. It also took into account human rights, gender and youth issues. The European Union and its member States would continue to promote the outcome document as a pivotal reference document, to work on its implementation and to use it as a basis for national policies and international cooperation. The European Union would not allow the 2009 Political Declaration and Plan of Action to be replaced by an instrument that did not entail the full and proper implementation of the recommendations made during the special session.
33. The European Union supported the pivotal role of the United Nations in the development of measures to fight international crime in all its forms. It would continue to oppose as a matter of principle the use of the death penalty, including for drug-related crime.
34. Mr. Saito (Japan) said that his country had strengthened its response to sexual offenses by expanding the definition of rape in the penal code, increasing minimum sentences, and removing provisions that required submission of a formal complaint in order for prosecution to proceed.
35. Japan had ratified the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and the United Nations Convention against Corruption. In 2020, the country would host the Fourteenth United Nations Crime Congress under the theme of “Advancing crime prevention, criminal justice and the rule of law: Towards the achievement of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development”.
36. Trafficking in persons was one of the most urgent issues before the international community. Japan welcomed the recent high-level meeting of the General Assembly on the Appraisal of the United Nations Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons. As Security Council resolution 2331 (2016) had highlighted, terrorist groups engaged in human trafficking to raise funds and recruit members. The
international community was jointly responsible for eliminating that threat.
37. Mr. Aboulatta (Egypt), speaking on behalf of the African Group, said that the Group continued to work towards reducing crime levels and had made progress in pursuing regional approaches to international criminal justice and applying regional and international conventions. African States had shown resolve in settling conflicts within their borders and continued to improve on important benchmarks of good governance, the rule of law and constitutional order. Many African States found it challenging to deal with crime effectively due to their vast, porous borders, coastlines, poorly regulated airfields, weakened governance infrastructure and limited law enforcement capacity.
38. The adoption by the African Union of the Ouagadougou Action Plan to Combat Trafficking in Human Beings, Especially Women and Children and the Migration Policy Framework for Africa, as well as the launch of the African Union Commission Initiative Against Trafficking campaign, the African Union Mechanism for Police Cooperation and the Khartoum Process had resulted in more convictions of traffickers and the protection of a greater number of victims. Nevertheless, human trafficking and smuggling of migrants remained a challenge for Africa. Activities should be launched with the international community to ensure close cooperation, information sharing and joint operations, in order to afford migrants, refugees and asylum seekers more protection. The African Group remained committed to the United Nations Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons and welcomed the adoption of the political declaration on its implementation. The Group called on the international community to continue its support and contributions to the United Nations voluntary trust fund for victims of trafficking in persons, especially women and children.
39. As African States were deeply affected by terrorism, the Group commended the scaling up of UNODC support to African countries through training courses on terrorist financing and on the prosecution and adjudication of terrorist cases; the freeze, seizure and confiscation of terrorist assets; the detection and disruption of illicit flows used to finance terrorism; and the strengthening of regional and international cooperation among Member States. He called on the international community to continue its support for such activities.
40. Drug trafficking and related offences also jeopardized security, health and the socioeconomic conditions in Africa. Cannabis cultivation and
6/17
17-17449
A/C.3/72/SR.5
trafficking was a cause of concern, especially in rural areas. High levels of income inequality and urbanization, a lack of criminal justice resources, and war and civil conflicts had exacerbated the situation. The African Union Plan of Action on Drug Control (2013-2017), adopted at the fifth Session of the African Union Conference of Ministers of Drug Control, proposed a balanced and integrated approach to drug control based on the three international drug conventions. The Plan of Action created synergies with existing African Union Commission initiatives addressing organized crime, such as the 2011-2015 strategy of the African Union Advisory Board on Corruption, the 2006 Ouagadougou Action Plan, the 2050 Africa's Integrated Maritime Strategy, the African Union Strategy on the Control of Illicit Proliferation, Circulation and Trafficking of Small Arms and Light Weapons, the Algiers Plan of Action on the Prevention and Combating of Terrorism in Africa and with the task force for the universal and effective implementation of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction. Despite national and international cooperation to support the implementation of the Plan of Action in recent years, production, trafficking and use of illicit drugs were a growing challenge. Through collaboration with UNODC, Member States had established or were establishing national programmes to combat drug trafficking, drug use and associated transnational organized crime. The continent had supported a common position on the issue during the special session.
41. In September 2017, the Heads of National Drug Law Enforcement Agencies had held their twenty seventh meeting in Egypt, at which recommendations had been adopted on countering money laundering and illicit financial flows; enhancing coordination of regional communication platforms between drug law enforcement agencies; regulating trafficking in new psychoactive substances, including khat and tramadol; and coordinating law enforcement responses. The recommendations would be submitted to the sixty-first session of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs.
42. The African Group reiterated its support for the extension of the Political Declaration and Plan of Action beyond 2019. The Political Declaration and the outcome document of the special session complemented each other by encompassing the commitments contained in the three international drug conventions.
43. The Group highlighted the urgent need to respond to the serious challenges posed by the increasing
connections between drug trafficking, corruption and other forms of organized crime, including trafficking in persons, trafficking in firearms, cybercrime, terrorism and money-laundering, and called on the international community to strengthen its resolve to address those challenges by adopting appropriate and sustainable policies.
44. Mr. Lee Huan Ting (Singapore) said that Singapore, given its close proximity to the Golden Triangle and its position as a transport hub, was at the forefront of the struggle against drugs as both a transit and a destination country and therefore believed in a drug-free society, not a drug-tolerant one. It had taken a comprehensive, balanced, sustained and tough approach to tackling drug supply and demand and adopted a comprehensive harm prevention strategy to address law and order issues, social problems and the impact of drugs on public health. The approach had brought about a steady decline in drug abusers. In 2016, the number had decreased by 3 per cent compared with 2015, and drug abusers currently comprised less than 0.1 per cent of the population. Nevertheless, young persons below the age of 30 had comprised two -thirds of new abusers in 2016.
45. Addressing a global problem required a global effort. Singapore therefore strongly supported the centrality of the three international drug control conventions, which served as the cornerstone of global drug policy. At the special session of the General Assembly on the world drug problem, consensus had been reached on operational recommendations to guide all countries in the fight against the drug problem. All States should work hard to actively implement the Political Declaration and Plan of Action on International Cooperation towards an Integrated and Balanced Strategy to Counter the World Drug Problem.
46. At the national level, Singapore had launched, in 2016, its National Cybercrime Action Plan outlining four key principles, namely, educating the public to stay safe in cyberspace, enhancing capacity to combat cybercrime, strengthening legislation and stepping up international partnerships. At the regional level, Singapore, as the ASEAN Voluntary Lead Shepherd on Cybercrime, was responsible for facilitating ASEAN initiatives against cybercrime, including the cybercrime workshops of ASEAN plus China, Japan and the Republic of Korea. At the international level, Singapore had partnered with INTERPOL through the INTERPOL Global Complex for Innovation to work on operational collaboration and capacity-building to help countries to confront the increasingly sophisticated challenges of cybercrime. Singapore was an active participant in international processes, had acceded to
17-17449
7/17
A/C.3/72/SR.5
key United Nations conventions on transnational crime and was continuously strengthening its cooperation with international law enforcement agencies.
47. Ms. Abdelkawy (Egypt) said that international cooperation was important for severing the links between terrorism and transnational organized crime, such as money-laundering and trafficking in persons, arms and drugs, as well as newer phenomena such as trafficking in cultural property. The Government had taken a number of steps to protect its cultural heritage, including the introduction of stricter penalties for the smuggling of cultural artefacts.
48. Egypt had launched a national strategy to combat human trafficking that had been drafted with input from the relevant State agencies and civil society organizations. In 2016, a law had been enacted to fight illegal migration and the smuggling of migrants that imposed punitive sanctions on offenders. Furthermore, Egypt had joined the “Aware Migrant” campaign, spearheaded by Italy and the International Organization for Migration, which raised awareness among African migrants on the exploitive practices of migrant smuggling rings.
49. Egypt believed that a clear vision was needed for the period following the 2019 expiration of the Political Declaration and Plan of Action on International Cooperation towards an Integrated and Balanced Strategy to Counter the World Drug Problem, especially as its objectives had not been achieved. Egypt therefore supported the extension of the Political Declaration and Plan of Action in order to avoid a gap in the system for confronting the global drug problem.
50. It was important to continue and strengthen the efforts of UNODC to provide States with technical support. Funding sources for UNODC should be diversified, and Egypt therefore called on donor States to provide general funding that was not allocated to specific activities or programmes.
51. Mr. Sandoval Mendiolea (Mexico) said that the 2016 special session had marked a watershed moment in international drug policy and that the outcome document reflected a balanced and renewed vision involving the participation of all United Nations bodies. In the context of efforts to reform the United Nations system and boost the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals, bodies would need to have clearer mandates and work together more closely. Whereas many crime prevention plans in the past had failed or been counterproductive, the new vision offered by the special session and the 2030 Agenda was the best option for achieving peaceful, just and inclusive societies.
52. In the annual omnibus resolution on drug policy, Mexico would draw attention to progress in the implementation of the outcome document; emphasize the link between the special session and the 2030 Agenda; strengthen the focus on gender and human rights; advocate enhanced measurement and collection of information for drug-related statistics; support joint initiatives by the Statistical Commission, the WHO and the Commission on Narcotic Drugs; and advocate the strengthening of linkages with civil society, academia and regional organizations.
53. In Mexico, the criminal justice system had been recalibrated to mainstream respect for human rights and the pro persona principle. Multilateral initiatives were needed, however, to counter corruption, illicit financial flows and trafficking in firearms and ensure effective and efficient coordination of the efforts of international and regional bodies. To that end, Mexico would be organizing an international conference in early 2018 with the directors of Government bodies responsible for combating trafficking in small arms and light weapons. The international community had failed to address the problems associated with small arms and light weapons with the necessary rigour.
54. Mr. Meza-Cuadra (Peru) said that combating transnational organized crime and associated offenses was a priority for Peru. Although every case should be considered on its own merits, there were advantages to drawing up joint comprehensive strategies in relation to certain criminal activities which hindered the achievement of the 2030 Agenda. Any such approach should take into account relevant international instruments, such as the Organized Crime Convention, the United Nations Convention against Corruption and international conventions related to drugs; focus on preventing information technology tools from falling into the hands of criminals; enhance information exchange and cooperation mechanisms at the bilateral, regional and multilateral levels; and utilize the support of United Nations bodies, especially UNODC. The three international drug conventions and the Commission on Narcotic Drugs were instrumental to the achievement of the goals established in the 2009 Political Declaration and Plan of Action.
55. Peru had drawn up a national anti-drug strategy for the period 2017-2021 which was holistic, multidisciplinary, sustainable and balanced. To reduce supply and improve control of the legal sale of the coca leaf for traditional and industrial purposes, the Government had strengthened the capacity of its anti drug intelligence forces to break up criminal organizations and penalize trafficking in drugs and chemical agents, money laundering and associated
8/17
17-17449
A/C.3/72/SR.5
offences. The Peruvian model of sustainable development centred on socioeconomic alternatives for populations which cultivated coca, with due regard for land usage, interculturality, human rights and gender. Peru also worked with civil society organizations to carry out anti-drug campaigns and services in families, schools and communities. In addition, it had expanded therapy programmes for specific population groups, including juvenile offenders and prison inmates.
56. Ms. Al Nussairy (Iraq) said that Iraq was committed to tackling organized crime in all its forms, which included confronting terrorism and the terrorist groups that targeted the peace and security of civilians, particularly Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). Legislation to eliminate terrorism and cut off funding to terrorist groups must adhere to human rights principles, and to that end, Iraq had enacted the Law No. 13 of 2005 on Anti-terrorism and Law No. 28 of 2012 Combating Trafficking in Persons.
57. In an effort to deter corruption, Iraq had established the Commission on Integrity, which reported to the parliament. Iraq had confronted the problems posed by illicit drugs by enacting Law No. 50 of 2017, which provided medical care to drug users and addressed the trafficking of illicit substances. In an initiative to promote tolerance and facilitate the social reintegration of criminal offenders, Iraq had enacted an amnesty law in 2016. Furthermore, Iraq had acceded to the United Nations Convention against Corruption in 2007 and the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime in 2009.
58. Iraq wished to pay tribute to the efforts of the United Nations to combat organized crime. It welcomed Security Council resolution 2379 (2017) and considered it a triumph for humanity and for Iraqi victims of terrorism. It also appreciated the efforts made by the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice and by UNODC, which had provided technical support and capacity building to Iraqi officials and law enforcement.
59. Mr. Aljabr (Saudi Arabia) said that crime hindered development and undermined the rule of law. Criminal justice systems must be established on firm bases in order to confront the challenges posed by social, cultural and economic changes that had led to an increase in transnational crimes. His delegation saw a need for reliable data on crime and a monitoring mechanism that would allow Member States to follow up on the progress made towards achievement of the Goals.
60. Saudi Arabia had established a system of specialized courts, including civil, commercial and
labour courts. Saudi Arabia strove towards swift and comprehensive justice as a pillar of development and had granted the public prosecutor complete independence of the executive authority. The Government stressed the importance of sharing expertise around the treatment of prisoners and had provided them with rehabilitation and social reintegration services. The Mohammed Bin Naif Counselling and Care Centre had developed an interactive approach to rehabilitation that aimed at promoting moderation, uprooting extremism and preventing the spread of deviant ideas. The Global Center for Combating Extremist Ideology, established in Riyadh in May 2017, combatted extremism in the media and on the Internet and promoted coexistence and tolerance.
61. Based on its Islamic conviction that all substances that endangered human life must be prohibited, Saudi Arabia made every effort to combat the use of illicit drugs. Harsh penalties must be imposed on those guilty of dealing and smuggling drugs. Saudi Arabia had taken proactive steps and had made recourse to international cooperation to ensure that drugs would not enter the country.
62. Ms. Mejia Velez (Colombia) said that Colombia had the moral authority to declare that the world had failed in its decades-long fight to stem trafficking in drugs. The 2009 Political Declaration and Plan of Action was set to expire in 2019 and its goals of achieving a world free of drug abuse had proven unachievable. Parties should thus accept that the concept of launching a war on drugs had failed and that Member States should no longer follow the same goals as those set out in the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, 1961.
63. The forthcoming ministerial meeting to be held in Vienna in 2017 should be considered as a new start. The outcome document of the General Assembly special session was a good starting point for constructing new policies centred on individuals, their freedoms and rights, with the same ultimate goal as the three main drug control conventions: the maintenance of health and well-being. In the search for intelligent solutions, it was crucial for the United Nations to promote open debate and discuss all options for resolving the serious issues caused by drugs and drug control policies.
64. Mr. Yesod (Israel) said that the aim of drug policies and programmes in Israel was to keep young people safe and promote a healthy, drug-free lifestyle. Israel provided formal and informal education programmes and training on making smart life choices,
17-17449
9/17
A/C.3/72/SR.5
and made interventions when necessary. It had developed unique treatment and recovery services tailored for young people. Parents and significant adults were integrated into those activities, and special units had been formed of parent volunteers who helped young people to cope with risky behaviour.
65. Israel combated drug abuse through a comprehensive and balanced approach, in compliance with the three international conventions and with full respect for human rights. Incorporating human rights into the fight against drugs was imperative to its success. The Israeli criminal justice system therefore employed alternatives to incarceration, such as treatment programmes, public service or fines. Thanks to the adoption of legislation and effective prevention measures to address the new psychoactive substances phenomenon, the perception of risk was high and levels of use had lowered. In contrast, the very low perception of risk was a key factor in the increase in cannabis use in the country. The Government was therefore developing a new reform to decriminalize cannabis use for first-time offenders, who would instead pay a fine that would be used to fund treatment, initiatives and drug education.
66. Treatment services were designed to meet diverse needs, including those of women, young people, comorbidity patients and ex-convicts. A focus on rehabilitation was imperative to reintegration into society. Patients in treatment centres, including opioid substitution maintenance therapy centres, were therefore provided with vocational courses, assistance in writing curricula vitae and preparing for job interviews, and information on rehabilitation-friendly employers.
67. Mr. Estrada Meyer (Brazil) said that, in a world that was increasingly interconnected and interdependent, crime operated without any regard for borders, and the international community must find ways to improve its response to that challenge. In order to efficiently fight all forms of transnational crime, its underlying causes must be addressed. Effective strategies for countering crime should have preventive policies as central elements. Brazil reaffirmed its commitment to the implementation of the 2030 Agenda, which helped to strengthen the synergy between efforts to promote development, protect human rights and fight crime. In order to enhance the consistency and coherence of crime prevention policies in the United Nations system, the commitments recently made by Member States, such as in the Political declaration on the implementation of the United Nations Global Plan of Action to Combat
Trafficking in Persons, should be mainstreamed into the relevant resolutions of the Committee.
68. Brazil had approved a law against organized crime, in 2013, and a law against trafficking in persons, in 2016. Congress had recently approved a new law on migration that would establish clear channels for regular and orderly migration, which were the most effective tools to prevent the smuggling of migrants and trafficking in persons. Another high priority for Brazil was preventing and combating corruption, and the high-profile investigations and convictions in recent years were testament to its genuine commitment to tackling the issue.
69. Brazil reaffirmed its commitment to following up and implementing the recommendations of the special session of the General Assembly on the world drug problem. Human rights norms and standards were an indispensable part of the international legal framework for the design and implementation of drug policies. The right to life, including the prohibition of extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions, and the right to health were two of the many human rights that were often violated by drug policies. Efforts should continue to further mainstream human rights considerations into the global response to the world drug problem. Those elements must be brought into the debates that would set the stage for the forthcoming review, in 2019, of the 2009 Political Declaration and Plan of Action.
70. Mr. Idris (Eritrea) said that, in the light of the threat posed by transnational crime in the region, Eritrea welcomed the launch of the UNODC Regional Programme for Eastern Africa for the period 20162021. Eritrea was committed to playing its part in combating transnational crime and promoting the rule of law in the region. The United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and the Protocols thereto could play a vital role in facilitating regional and international cooperation through the exchange of good practices and information and the provision of mutual legal assistance and technical support.
71. In the region, many people, especially young people, continued to be victims of trafficking as they attempted to migrate to Europe and the Gulf. His Government had for years been calling for an independent international body to investigate human trafficking in the Horn of Africa with the aim of bringing those responsible to justice and had expressed its commitment to cooperate and provide information to such a body. Its repeated requests to the Secretary General and the Security Council to initiate such an
10/17
17-17449
A/C.3/72/SR.5
investigation, however, remained unheeded. Greater international effort was needed to ensure that no case of human trafficking went unprosecuted. The global compact for safe, orderly and regular migration must emphasize the need for further cooperation among countries of origin, transit and destination to eradicate the crimes of the smuggling of migrants and trafficking in persons, including by holding criminals to account wherever they resided.
72. The low crime rate in Eritrea could be attributed to the rich customary norms of Eritrean society, according to which any form of criminal behaviour was actively abhorred, and to Government strategies to reduce vulnerability to crime and victimization. In the past decade, crime had been further reduced. The modest success of Eritrea in crime prevention was due to its national development strategy, its advocacy strategy that aimed to inculcate a culture of integrity, civic service, equality and tolerance, and its legal system that enabled greater participation of communities in the judicial process. The role of Eritrea in combating the transnational crimes of trafficking in persons, terrorism and the smuggling of migrants should be commended. In cooperation with its partners, including UNODC, Eritrea was continuing to strengthen its national capacity in fighting existing and emerging crimes.
73. Mr. Wickramarachchi (Sri Lanka) said that Sri Lanka had ratified and implemented the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, 1961, as amended by the Protocol Amending the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, 1961, the Convention on Psychotropic Substances, 1971, the United Nations Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and other relevant international instruments that constituted the cornerstone of the international drug control system. The National Dangerous Drugs Control Board was the pioneer Government institution that aimed to eradicate the drug menace in the country. Sri Lanka cooperated closely with UNODC, the World Health Organization, the International Narcotics Control Board, other international and regional organizations and the scientific community to contribute to the scientific assessment of drug supply and demand reduction policies, drug markets and drug-related crime. Sri Lanka continued to implement the operational recommendations of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs.
74. As a transit hub for drug trafficking, Sri Lanka had tightened its vigilance and expanded its offshore navy patrols. The Government had also adopted regulations to prevent and counter money-laundering
and illicit financial flows stemming from drug trafficking and related crimes. In 2017, Sri Lanka had been working closely with the UNODC Regional Office for South-East Asia and the Pacific, including on activities under the Global Maritime Crime Programme and the Global Container Control Programme. It was also actively engaged in the followup to the special session of the General Assembly on the world drug problem.
75. Narcotic drug abuse, as a cross-cutting issue in the Sustainable Development Goals, remained one of the most important issues that needed to be addressed in the context of the 2030 Agenda. Sri Lanka was actively pursuing the Sustainable Development Goals and effectively addressing the world drug problem. It was determined to prevent and treat the abuse of such substances and prevent and counter their illicit cultivation, production, manufacturing and trafficking and reaffirmed its unwavering commitment to reducing supply and demand. Sri Lanka ensured all human rights and fundamental freedoms and the principle of equal rights when dealing with drug abuse.
76. Ms. Mwangi (Kenya) said that her Government reaffirmed its commitment to the implementation of the provisions of the three international drug control conventions and the recommendations of the outcome document of the thirtieth special session of the General Assembly on the world drug problem. Kenya was a member of the Intergovernmental Authority on Development and attached great importance to regional and international cooperation. Its national action plans incorporated regional policy and strategy frameworks relating to the prevention, detection, investigation and neutralization of transnational organized crime. Kenya actively participated in the Transnational Organized Crime Threat Assessment, which greatly enhanced empirical knowledge on vulnerability and threats in the region.
77. The Government continued to invest heavily to ensure that the criminal justice system adequately responded to all forms of organized crime. Despite efforts and significant investments in combating terrorism and organized crime networks, Kenya continued to face serious security challenges from violent extremism and the continuing threat posed by Al-Shabaab. Other daunting challenges included the proliferation of illicit drugs entering the region for trans-shipment to markets in Europe and around the world, the proliferation of small arms and light weapons in the region, the country's vast, sparsely populated and porous borders, the illegal trade of poached animal objects, the lack of adequate capacity
17-17449
11/17
A/C.3/72/SR.5
for border security and inadequate identification systems.
78. As part of efforts to coordinate and implement its transnational organized crime and drug control strategy and policy, Kenya had revised its Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Control) Act, invested in regional mechanisms for stemming the proliferation of small arms and light weapons and established mechanisms for cooperation with foreign agencies to exchange information and investigate suspected money-laundering activities. Kenya had also adopted the Prevention of Organized Crime Act, the Proceeds of Crime and Anti-money-laundering Act, the Countertrafficking in Persons Act, the Victim Protection Act, the Anti-corruption and Economic Crimes Act, the Bribery Act, 2016, and the Access to Information Act. In addition, the Government had enhanced the main mechanisms to support international cooperation through mutual legal assistance, extradition, transfer of prisoners, transfer of proceeds in criminal matters, cooperation for the purposes of the confiscation of criminal proceeds and asset recovery in line with the United Nations Convention against Corruption.
79. In the collective fight against transnational organized crime, Kenya called upon all Member States to comply with all mutually agreed international standards, assist each other in building capacity for international cooperation within national criminal justice systems, enhance cooperation and assistance in the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals and expand cooperation in the sharing of intelligence and data, training and technology without compromising national capabilities.
80. Ms. Mukhametzyanova (Russian Federation) said that the Russian Federation consistently supported the central role of the United Nations in coordinating efforts to counter criminal challenges and threats, on the basis of a comprehensive and balanced approach and in strict compliance with the norms and principles of international law. It called for the further universalization and effective implementation of the Organized Crime Convention and the Protocols thereto and the Convention against Corruption. The launch of a mechanism for the review of implementation of the Organized Crime Convention and the Protocols thereto was an important task, and it was imperative for such a mechanism to be intergovernmental and non-politicized in nature and financed from the United Nations regular budget. Her Government supported the further strengthening of the legal basis of international cooperation in countering criminal challenges and threats, including the development of new international legal instruments, taking into account new types of
crime. In that regard, countering cybercrime and asset recovery could be prospective subjects. While reaffirming its unwavering support for UNODC, the Russian Federation was concerned that the reduction in funding from the United Nations regular budget was having a negative impact on some of its key activities, including its scientific and research work, and hoped that the situation would improve.
81. The Russian Federation traditionally supported the strengthening of the Convention against Corruption and was of the view that other multilateral forums should not undermine that United Nations mechanism, but could, as necessary, serve as a valuable complement thereto. It was important to preserve the intergovernmental nature of the Mechanism for the Review of Implementation of the Convention against Corruption. The fundamental principles of the mechanism must be strictly followed to ensure that the results of reviews were as objective as possible. The mechanism had proved to be an effective instrument for international cooperation and did not require any revision. It was also important to preserve and strengthen the existing international system of drug control based on the three international anticorruption conventions and the key role of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs. The Russian Federation supported the activities of the International Narcotics Control Board, which ensured proper monitoring of the implementation of those instruments.
82. The continuing attempts to shift the centre of gravity in global drug policy by reducing the attention given to its law enforcement aspects were troubling. The Russian Federation called for a balanced approach to solving the global drug problem, emphasizing the need to pay equal attention to all its aspects. It attached great importance to the faithful fulfilment by all States of their political obligations in the effective implementation of the 2009 Political Declaration and Plan of Action. The concluding recommendations of the special session of the General Assembly on the world drug problem of 2016 were a tool for achieving the aims of those instruments.
83. The Russian Federation was concerned by the drug threat emanating from Afghanistan, which continued to jeopardize international peace and stability. The situation was further compounded by the increasing connections between criminal groups and terrorist organizations, including through the creation of joint channels for the laundering of criminal proceeds. The drug problem in Afghanistan must be monitored and analysed by United Nations agencies, taking into account the increase in the illegal cultivation of opium poppies in 2016 and the
12/17
17-17449
A/C.3/72/SR.5
subsequent increase in the illegal production of opiates.
84. In 2017, under a multilateral mechanism of the Collective Security Treaty Organization, “Canal”, an operation was carried out in Belarus to combat the laundering of proceeds of drug trade, which had led not only to a significant decrease in the overall crime rate but also to the suppression of the activities of a number of transnational criminal groups. In December 2016, a large international conference entitled “Parliaments against Drugs” had been held in Moscow with the aim of further bridging efforts to find an adequate solution to the global drug threat.
85. Ms. Oehri (Liechtenstein) said that human trafficking and modern slavery were among the greatest human rights scandals of modern times and an obstacle to sustainable development. The United Nations had had a long-standing engagement in the fight against those crimes. The Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons Especially Women and Children, supplementing the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime, offered a solid legal framework for cooperation in the area of law enforcement. Liechtenstein advocated universal ratification of that Convention.
86. Law enforcement and criminal justice were crucial in the fight against trafficking in persons. As its contribution to the fight against impunity for the most serious crimes under international law, the Government had identified two key areas in which it hoped it would make a difference. First, it aimed to strengthen accountability through international criminal justice mechanisms, particularly the International Criminal Court, and second, it had deployed expertise from the country's financial sector to fight money -laundering and the financing of terrorism in order to combat human trafficking.
87. Corruption allowed traffickers to operate and escape prosecution and undermined the institutions that protected citizens. It also hindered the full enjoyment of human rights, including the right to development. The United Nations Convention against Corruption was the only legally binding, universal anti-corruption instrument. In the June 2017 executive summary reviewing the implementation by Liechtenstein of that Convention, the country was shown to have a far reaching regulatory framework for all the Convention's prevention provisions.
88. Ms. Kaszas (Hungary), Vice-Chair, resumed the Chair.
89. Mr. Qassem Agha (Syrian Arab Republic) said that over the previous six years, his country had faced a prolonged crisis as various forces aimed to impose their control over the Syrian people through terrorism. It had become clear that Security Council resolutions on counter-terrorism could not be implemented absent pressure on certain powerful and wealthy countries that heedlessly pursued blind policies. Those Governments believed that terrorist groups were a magic wand that could be used to redraw the Syria-Iraq border.
90. Despite the enormous suffering of the Syrian people and the huge sacrifices made in defence of the country, Syria was determined to uproot terrorism from its territory. Israel had provided money, ammunition, arms and communications to terrorist groups, and had bombed Syrian Army positions in service to a terrorist project that had begun in 1948 with the assassination of Count Folke Bernadotte by the Stern Gang.
91. The same countries that denounced terrorism in Syria had bombarded civilians. The so -called International Coalition, led by the United States and formed ostensibly to fight terrorist organizations such as ISIL, had killed more innocent civilians than terrorists and had destroyed infrastructure. The United Nations had failed to implement its Charter and the principles of international law, and it was time to think about how to reform the organization and prosecute the Governments of the member States involved in the bloodshed.
92. Mr. Cardi (Italy) said that, in the face of current challenges, it was obvious that the full application of the Organized Crime Convention and the Protocols thereto should be an essential component of every programme for crime prevention and criminal justice. Such a conclusion had been reached almost unanimously at the high-level debate of the General Assembly on transnational organized crime held in June 2017. The need to equip the Convention with an effective, sustainable review mechanism had also been noted. A similar assessment should be reached for the Convention against Corruption.
93. Italy had actively contributed to recent progress in the international legal framework, including by countering trafficking in persons, defending the status and rights of women and minors, with special attention to victims of crime, building on the declaration of the special session of the General Assembly on the world drug problem, consistently addressing drug abuse in a balanced manner, improving the penalty and penitentiary system, protecting cultural heritage and countering related trafficking, fighting corruption and financial crimes, responding to the abuse of the
17-17449
13/17
A/C.3/72/SR.5
Internet and social media by criminal and terrorist groups and supporting the work of existing and new central authorities and specialized agencies for judicial cooperation in fighting crime.
94. With a view to creating transparent societies and institutions and achieving the 2030 Agenda, in particular Sustainable Development Goal 16, Italy intended to lend its support to the dissemination of a culture of legality, directed at young people in particular, the improvement of access to justice and the creation of high-tech forums to help all citizens to effectively use legal documentation.
95. Mr. Rasuli (Afghanistan) said that policies and
strategies could not respond to the new hybrid of terrorism, transnational organized crime and illegal drug trade unless the underlying contributing factors and root causes were addressed. For Afghanistan, the threats of terrorism, transnational organized crime and illegal narcotics were particularly acute. As a result of the protracted conflicts in the country, poppy cultivation and drug addiction had increased, and the link between insecurity and poppy cultivation was obvious. Drug use was prevalent across rural and urban areas, affecting women, men, young people and children. According to a survey conducted in 2016, the number of drug addicts had soared to 3.2 million, an astonishing 12 per cent of the population. Access to drug treatment was limited, and only 109 structured drug treatment centres were currently in operation in the country, not enough to treat all those affected. The Government attached high priority to combating the drug problem with concrete policy directions. In 2017, it had eradicated 750 hectares of poppy fields, an increase of 53 per cent compared the previous year. In 2016, 2,138 drug traffickers, including foreign
nationals, had been captured.
96. Successful supply reduction efforts in drug producing regions had been partially offset by the continued demand for drugs in all parts of the world. Addressing the global drug problem therefore required a comprehensive and unified response, with a focus on trade, trafficking, production and consumption. Only through joint cooperation could the current and future generations be protected from the menace of narcotics. Afghanistan remained strongly committed to fighting those issues and had already taken major steps to expand cooperation with countries of the region and beyond.
97. Ms. Pham Thi Kim Anh (Viet Nam) said that due to the serious impact of drugs and drug-related crime on human health, social life and development, her country had implemented a comprehensive and
inclusive approach to raising public awareness and mobilizing participation in drug control programmes and drug-related crime prevention. The Government promoted crime prevention and reform of the criminal justice system, strengthened the investigation and prosecution of drug-related crimes and had established a National Committee on Drug Control. The penal code had been amended to apply severe punishments for drug-related crimes.
98. Given that a large number of methamphetamine seizures had taken place in Southeast Asia, Viet Nam had worked with ASEAN on regional approaches to the issue. It had also worked closely with other intergovernmental organizations such as INTERPOL and the World Customs Organization.
99. Ms. Amadeo (United States of America) said that UNODC played a critical role in helping Governments to combat the scourge of illicit narcotics, corruption and transnational organized crime. The United States continued to be a proud member of both the Commission on Narcotic Drugs and the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice, which played leading roles in developing global responses to those threats, and the single largest donor to UNODC.
100. Her Government was highly concerned by the increase in coca cultivation and cocaine production within its hemisphere, which not only posed risks to local communities, but also fuelled transnational organized crime, corruption, money laundering and cybercrime. At the global level, the United States had an interest in working towards the achievement of a future in which all nations could be prosperous and secure. Criminals did not respect political boundaries or legal jurisdictions, forcing prosecutors and investigators to look increasingly beyond their borders to find evidence, witnesses and stolen assets. Fortunately, there was no need to develop new treaties and instruments to address those threats; Governments must rather exercise the political will to use existing ones.
101. Combating transnational crime had been identified as one of her Government's top priorities and it was strengthening efforts to dismantle criminal groups and more effectively align United States resources. As part of those efforts, a whole-ofGovernment response to an unprecedented health crisis due to opioids and related synthetic drugs was taking place. In 2015, more than 52,000 people had died from drug overdoses in the United States, and most of those deaths had been related to opioids.
102. In its World Drug Report 2017, UNODC had noted that an estimated 29.5 million people suffered from drug use disorders around the world. In fact, that
14/17
17-17449
A/C.3/72/SR.5
number might be even higher, considering the reliance in the report on self-reported data from countries. The United States was therefore investing in UNODC and the International Narcotics Control Board and stressed the urgency of focusing on the practical implementation of the commitments made at the special session of the General Assembly on the world drug problem. The United States applauded the efforts of UNODC and the International Narcotics Control Board to accelerate information-sharing and analysis with a view to securing international control of the myriad substances and precursor chemicals used to make synthetic opioids. The momentum must continue in the face of new and emerging substances.
103. An integrated and balanced strategy was needed to counter the world drug problem, and the United States would therefore strongly support international drug demand reduction programmes and was committed to addressing the corrupt behaviours that helped drug traffickers, criminals and terrorists to flourish. Most solutions to drugs and crime would be found by doctors, police officials, investigators and prosecutors, and the United States was therefore also committed to ensuring that they succeeded.
104. Ms. Goldrick (Nicaragua) said that Nicaragua acknowledged the full validity and relevance of all United Nations conventions on drugs and called for their effective implementation. Deregulation and legalization of drugs were not viable options; those policies would lead to increased drug use and were contrary to the provisions of current international drug control instruments. The world drug problem must be addressed while respecting each nation's specific situation, priorities and legal system, in strict compliance with the United Nations Charter and international law. The Government reaffirmed the principle of common but differentiated responsibility and encouraged the broadest international cooperation, including the exchange of experiences and good practices and the provision of greater financial and logistical resources to transit countries.
105. With international assistance, the Government, workforce and private sector in Nicaragua worked together constructively to develop programmes against modern evils such as terrorism, crime, drug trafficking, trafficking in arms and human trafficking. As a result, Nicaragua had become one of the countries least affected by organized crime in its region, with a model that was recognized worldwide. The model involved the creation of a retaining wall against drug trafficking; preventive, proactive and community-based actions focused on citizen and human security; a national campaign for a drug-free Nicaragua; and a highly
effective criminal justice system. More recently, a postgraduate course had been launched to train justice system professionals in organized crime cases. The Nicaraguan model was a humble contribution to regional peace and security, and yet it was the country's main contribution to the international community. Crime prevention and criminal justice agencies formed part of a system based on citizen participation. Government policy aimed to build a State that promoted Christian values, socialist ideals and solidarity. That meant advancing policies that strengthened the family and developing programmes that promoted, protected and restored human rights.
106. Ms. Rodriguez Camejo (Cuba) said that her delegation supported the establishment of a review mechanism for the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime, although care should be taken to ensure that its intergovernmental nature did not generate rankings among countries and to ensure that it was non-punitive in character and based on peer evaluation.
107. The cost of the scourge of drug abuse was enormous, as it reproduced the cycles of poverty, violence and various forms of criminal behaviour and social exclusion. It would be very difficult to resolve the problems of drug production and trafficking from the impoverished South without eliminating demand in the developed North. The problem would not be solved by militarizing countries, punishing farmers, or legalizing drugs. Cuba supported the existing legal framework concerning illicit drugs as well as the provisions contained in the three international conventions on the issue. Cuba had a zero tolerance policy on the production, consumption and trafficking of drugs and complied with all international obligations. It had a notable record in confronting crimes such as international terrorism, drug trafficking, money laundering, piracy and trafficking in persons. Furthermore, Cuba was a State party to 16 international anti-terrorism instruments and had enacted a comprehensive law against terrorist acts.
108. Human trafficking was very uncommon in Cuba. In April 2017 the Special Rapporteur on trafficking in persons, especially women and children, had paid a visit to Cuba and had heard firsthand about the real situation of the country.
109. Ms. Kalamwina (Zambia) said that her Government had undertaken institutional reforms in order to reduce crime, particularly against women and children. Laws such as the Anti-Gender-Based Violence Act prescribed stiff penalties for perpetrators of crimes against women and children. Zambia had
17-17449
15/17
A/C.3/72/SR.5
helped combat transnational organized crime as a member of the Southern African Regional Police Chiefs Cooperation Organization. Joint permanent commissions on defence and security had been held with neighbouring countries to facilitate the sharing of information and best practices.
110. In 2015, Zambia had launched the National Youth Policy, which aimed to create jobs for unskilled youths and provide low-interest loans for youth-led enterprises. Such policy efforts were intended to empower young people and prevent them from engaging in drug trafficking, drug abuse and drug cultivation. Public and private institutions provided treatment, rehabilitation and social integration for drug addicts. Mechanisms had also been devised to ensure that controlled substances were available for medical and scientific purposes and not diverted to illicit uses.
111. The Government had established the Anti-Money-Laundering and Investigations Unit under the Drug Enforcement Commission, which investigated all money-laundering offences. It had also established a Financial Intelligence Centre and had enacted laws concerning forfeiture of the proceeds of crime and protections for whistle-blowers.
112. Archbishop Auza (Observer for the Holy See) said that his delegation supported creative and determined initiatives to fight the evil of international drug trafficking and drug use, which shattered lives, families and communities. It appreciated all efforts to combat the international drug trade and to treat those whose lives it threatened.
113. Generations would continue to suffer in the absence of a robust national, regional and international commitment to ending the drug trade. The problem should not be addressed by easing restrictions on drug use, but rather, the elimination of drug production and the drug trade should be vigourously pursued. The problems that gave rise to substance abuse must be addressed through the promotion of justice and by inculcating social values in the youth. Breaking the bonds of addiction was extremely difficult; a constant focus on prevention thus was necessary. The illicit drug trade was also deeply intertwined with other threats to human dignity, such as human trafficking, poverty, the breakdown of families, money laundering, government corruption, threats to the rule of law, unemployment, health risks, domestic violence and economic insecurity.
114. Mr. Al-Mansori (Qatar) said that his country had worked tirelessly to implement the Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and had looked to the Convention as a mechanism for strengthening the
criminal justice system and the rule of law. Qatar had also adopted a number of legal and executive procedures in order to address crime and combat illicit drugs.
115. The Doha Declaration, adopted at the Thirteenth United Nations Congress on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice, had contributed greatly to the inclusion of crime prevention and criminal justice into the wider United Nations agenda. Qatar continued to work with UNODC on the follow -up to that Declaration. The country also supported special sports programmes to prevent crime among youth, as well as projects related to the rehabilitation and social reintegration of prisoners, justice education, and judicial integrity.
116. Qatar had played an effective regional role in raising awareness of anti-corruption measures. It had also established the Administrative Control and Transparency Authority and the Rule of Law and Anti-corruption Centre. Thanks to those measures, Qatar had received a high ranking on an anti-corruption survey published by Transparency International.
117. Qatar had launched an international prize for excellence in combating corruption. Every year on International Anti-Corruption Day, the prize was awarded in four areas (achievement, research and education, youth initiatives and innovation) to pay tribute to individuals and organizations that had made special efforts in the fight against corruption.
118. Mr. Alvarez Sosa (Dominican Republic) said that his country had a well-known vulnerability to illicit trafficking in drugs, particularly because of its geographical location, which made it a natural country of transit between producer and consumer countries. The socio-economic situation in the country, with its high poverty rate, made it easier to understand the problem of drug trafficking because it was seen as a solution by the worst-off. However, although the Dominican Republic was not a producer of illicit drugs and had one of the lowest rates of consumption in the world, it had a very high risk of drug use.
119. Most drug users in the Dominican Republic were between the ages of 15 and 34. The Government was very concerned about the problem of street children and adolescents who had been in trouble with the law. Almost half had been arrested for theft, and most had taken drugs, particularly crack cocaine and marijuana. Most criminal offenses in the country were committed by youths between the ages of 18 and 21 whose chief motive was to obtain drugs. Nevertheless, respect for the human rights for all drug users, including the right of universal access to healthcare services, should never
16/17
17-17449
A/C.3/72/SR.5
be questioned.120.While the Dominican Republic had made great strides in reducing the murder rate, trafficking and consumption of drugs and alcohol among youth, along with the use of firearms, had become the main drivers of violence in recent years. Studies had shown that many adolescents who had committed crimes had used drugs and other illicit substances in the previous weeks or days.
The meeting rose at 1.00 p.m.
17-17449
17/17