United Nations
A/C.3/70/SR.46
General Assembly
Seventieth session
Official Records
Distr.: General 7 December 2015
Original: English
Third Committee
Summary record of the 46th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Thursday, 12 November 2015, at 3 p.m.
Chair: Mr. Hilale (Morocco)
Contents
Agenda item 65: Report of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, questions relating to refugees, returnees and displaced persons and humanitarian questions (continued)
Agenda item 29: Advancement of women (continued)
(b) Implementation of the outcome of the World Summit for Social Development and of the twenty-fourth special session of the General Assembly (continued)
Agenda item 65: Report of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, questions relating to refugees, returnees and displaced persons and humanitarian questions (continued)
Agenda item 72: Promotion and protection of human rights (continued)
(a) Implementation of human rights instruments (continued)
(b) Human rights questions, including alternative approaches for improving the effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms (continued)
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Control Unit (srcorrections@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
15-19865 (E)
in ii 11 in rnumv
A/C.3/70/SR.46
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda item 65: Report of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, questions relating to refugees, returnees and displaced persons and humanitarian questions (continued) (A/C.3/70/L.62)
Draft resolution A/C.3/70/L.62: Assistance to refugees, returnees and displaced persons in Africa
1. Ms. Klein (Madagascar), introducing the draft resolution on behalf of the African Group, said that the increasing number of refugees and internally displaced persons in Africa, which led to an increased burden on host countries, was a major concern of the African continent. The draft resolution updated General Assembly resolution 69/154 to reflect the current situation. It called for assistance to persons of concern and host countries, as well as durable solutions, and expressed concern about funding gaps and the reduction of the budget allocated to humanitarian assistance. It further called on the international community to take concrete actions to protect and respond adequately to the needs of refugees, returnees and displaced persons.
2. She read out oral revisions to the draft resolution. At the end of preambular paragraph 13, the words “and further recognizes the efforts of all States to this regard” should be added. Preambular paragraph 14 should be deleted, since the concern addressed b y that paragraph had been added to paragraph 13. Operative paragraph 23 of resolution 69/154, which had not been included in the draft resolution, should be inserted. Operative paragraph 23 should thus read: “Calls upon the international donor community to provide financial and material assistance that allows for the implementation of community -based development programmes that benefit both refugees and host communities, as appropriate, in agreement with host countries and consistent with humanitarian objectives”.
3. Mr. Khane (Secretary of the Committee) said that Georgia had become a sponsor of the draft resolution.
Agenda item 29: Advancement of women (continued)
(b) Implementation of the outcome of the World Summit for Social Development and of the twenty-fourth special session of the General Assembly (continued) (A/C.3/70/L.22)
Draft resolution A/C.3/70/L.22: Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women
4. The Chair said he had been advised that the draft resolution had no programme budget implications.
5. Ms. Tzeggai (Denmark), introducing the draft resolution on behalf of Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden, said that the draft resolution was a short procedural text and, apart from technical updates, no other changes had been made to General Assembly resolution 68/138.
6. Mr. Khane (Secretary of the Committee) said that Albania, Andorra, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Estonia, Ethiopia, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Latvia, Lebanon, Liberia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Maldives, Malta, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Suriname, Switzerland, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Uruguay and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) had become sponsors of the draft resolution.
7. Draft resolution A/C.3/70/L.22 was adopted.
8. Ms. Brooke (United States of America) said her country strongly supported the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and the Obama administration was committed to ratification of the Convention by the United States. While there were aspects of the reports of the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women with which the United States did not agree, by joining consensus on the resolution, the
2/4
15-19865
A/C.3/70/SR.46
United States underscored that it was a strong supporter of the goals and purposes of the Convention, as well as the work of the United Nations generally in promoting the rights of women around the world.
Agenda item 65: Report of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, questions relating to refugees, returnees and displaced persons and humanitarian questions (continued) (A/C.3/70/L.63)
Draft resolution A/C.3/70/L.63: Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
9. The Chair said he had been advised that the draft resolution had no programme budget implications.
10. Mr. Karstensen (Denmark), introducing the draft resolution on behalf of Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden, said that the objective of the draft resolution was to reiterate the support of Member States for the work of the Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and its Executive Committee. General Assembly resolution 69/152 had been updated in light of recent developments and challenges for the Organization in responding to the greatest number of forcibly displaced persons since the Second World War, and 14 substantive changes had been made to the previous text.
11. Mr. Khane (Secretary of the Committee) said that Andorra, Armenia, Australia, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cyprus, Ecuador, Ethiopia, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, Latvia, Liberia, Madagascar, Mali, Micronesia (Federated States of), Montenegro, Morocco, New Zealand, Panama, Philippines, Portugal, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Serbia, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Ukraine and United States of America had become sponsors of the draft resolution.
12. Draft resolution A/C.3/70/L.63 was adopted.
Agenda item 72: Promotion and protection of human rights (continued)
(a) Implementation of human rights instruments
(continued) (A/C.3/70/L.21)
Draft resolution A/C.3/70/L.21: International Covenants on Human Rights
13. The Chair said he had been advised that the draft resolution had no programme budget implications.
14. Mr. Thoresson (Sweden), introducing the draft resolution on behalf of the Nordic countries, said that the draft resolution was a short procedural text mainly with technical updates. It welcomed the forthcoming fiftieth anniversary of the adoption of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. It also referred to a plenary meeting of the General Assembly in 2016 to commemorate the anniversary of the adoption of those two Covenants. The adoption of the resolution would demonstrate the broad support for those two widely ratified core human rights treaties and acknowledge the highly valued work of the Human Rights Committee and the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights.
15. Mr. Khane (Secretary of the Committee) said that Albania, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Estonia, France, Georgia, Greece, Guatemala, India, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Latvia, Liberia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Madagascar, Mexico, Monaco, Montenegro, Morocco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Suriname, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Uruguay and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) had become sponsors of the draft resolution.
16. Ms. Brooke (United States of America), making a general statement before adoption of the draft resolution, said that while there were aspects of the two Committees' reports with which the United States disagreed, by joining consensus on the resolution the United States underscored that it was a strong
15-19865
3/4
A/C.3/70/SR.46
supporter of the goals of the Covenants, as well as the work of the United Nations generally.
17. Draft resolution A/C.3/70/L.21 was adopted.
(b) Human rights questions, including alternative approaches for improving the effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms (continued) (A/C.3/70/L.53)
Draft resolution A/C.3/70/L.53: Subregional Centre for Human Rights and Democracy in Central Africa
18. The Chair said he had been advised that the draft resolution had no programme budget implications.
19. Ms. Mballa Eyenga (Cameroon), introducing the draft resolution on behalf of the sponsors, the members of the Economic Community of Central African States (ECCAS), said that the objective of the draft resolution was to encourage the Centre to report on activities on the ground and ensure the continued support of Member States. It was based on General Assembly resolution 68/174 with some technical amendments to bring it up to date.
20. She read out oral revisions to the draft resolution. In preambular paragraph 7, “for human rights” should be inserted after “Commissioner” in the third line. Similarly, in preambular paragraph 9, “for human rights” should be inserted at the beginning of the second line. In preambular paragraph 8, “violations” should be replaced by “abuses”. In preambular paragraph 10, “more appropriate and sustainable” should be replaced by “sufficient”.
21. The four new preambular paragraphs (seventh, eighth, ninth and tenth) had been proposed to take into account the current situation. The seventh preambular paragraph took note of structural reforms planned by the High Commissioner for Human Rights. The eighth preambular paragraph underlined the security and humanitarian conditions that prevailed as a result of the conflicts that affected several countries of the subregion.
22. The attacks, abuses, crimes and massive violations of human rights of the civilian populations of the Lake Chad Basin region perpetrated by the Boko Haram terrorist group created additional challenges for Member States of the subregion, which had human rights implications. In that regard, the Centre's support was crucial. ECCAS reiterated its request for the international community's support in combating that
terrorist group. The international community must stand together in condemning and opposing terrorism.
23. The draft resolution was a compromise text designed to attract the support of all. Given the increasing demand for the Centre's services, ECCAS member States called on traditional partners, United Nations Member States, the Secretary-General and the High Commissioner for Human Rights to continue to support the Centre's work and provide it with sufficient resources.
24. Mr. Khane (Secretary of the Committee) said that Albania, Algeria, Australia, Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Estonia, Ethiopia, France, Germany, Ghana, Guinea, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kenya, Liberia, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Mali, Morocco, Namibia, New Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, Portugal, Romania, Slovenia, South Sudan, Spain, Sudan, Tunisia, Uganda and United Republic of Tanzania had become sponsors of the draft resolution.
25. Draft resolution A/C.3/70/L.53, as orally revised, was adopted.
The meeting rose at 3.50 p.m.
4/4
15-19865