United Nations
A/C.3/71/SR.47
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
Official Records
Distr.: General 7 December 2016
Original: English
Third Committee
Summary record of the 47th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Thursday, 10 November 2016, at 3 p.m.
Chair: Ms. Mej^a Velez (Colombia)
Contents
Agenda item 66: Elimination of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance (continued)
(a) Elimination of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance (continued)
(b) Comprehensive implementation of and follow -up to the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action (continued)
Agenda item 67: Right of peoples to self-determination (continued)
Agenda item 68: Promotion and protection of human rights (continued)
(b) Human rights questions, including alternative approaches for improving the effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms (continued)
Agenda item 106: Crime prevention and criminal justice (continued)
Agenda item 60: Report of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, questions related to refugees, returnees and displaced persons and humanitarian questions (continued)
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Control Unit (srcorrections@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
16-19815 (E)
in in i inrnmm
Please recycle
A/C.3/71/SR.47
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda item 66: Elimination of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance
(continued)
(a) Elimination of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance (continued)
(A/C.3/71/L.45)
Draft resolution A/C.3/71/L.45: Combating glorification of Nazism, neo-Nazism and other practices that contribute to fuelling contemporary forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance
1. Mr. Lukiyantsev (Russian Federation), introducing the draft resolution, said that one of the important features of the resolution was its interregional nature, which testified to the importance of the issues it addressed. Seventy years ago the Nuremberg trails had resulted in a very principled evaluation of Nazism, which now embodied evil in the eyes of the world. The current resolution related to contemporary forms of racism, which must be countered at both the national and international levels. The attempts in many European countries by racist groups to revise history and glorify Nazism were unacceptable.
2. Mr. Khane (Secretary of the Committee) said that Angola, Azerbaijan, Benin, Guinea, Kyrgyzstan, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mauritania, Morocco, Namibia, South Africa, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan had become sponsors of the draft resolution.
(b) Comprehensive implementation of and follow up to the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action (continued) (A/C.3/71/L.48)
Draft resolution A/C.3/71/L.48: A global call for concrete action for the total elimination of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance and the comprehensive implementation of and follow-up to the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action
3. Ms. Chartsuwan (Thailand), introducing the draft resolution on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, said that despite the progress made in the last 15 years, the alarming resurgence of racism and hatred
based on religion, belief, social status, language or culture, as well as slavery, the slave trade and other forms of servitude, was of grave concern, and had led to the deepening of social and economic inequalities as well as the marginalization of many around the world. Reinvigorated political will was indispensable.
Agenda item 67: Right of peoples to selfdetermination (continued) (A/C.3/71/L.50)
Draft resolution A/C.3/71/L.50: The right of the Palestinian people to self-determination
4. Mr. Moussa (Egypt), introducing the draft resolution , said that the draft resolution recalled the international human rights covenants, which were applicable to the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, and the advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice regarding Israel's unlawful wall being constructed in the Occupied Palestinian Territory and its conclusion that the wall, along with other measures previously taken by the occupying Power, severely impeded the right of the Palestinian people to self-determination.
5. Mr. Khane (Secretary of the Committee) said that Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belgium, the Comoros, Congo, Croatia, Cyprus, Czechia, Denmark, Djibouti, Estonia, Finland, Germany, Greece, Guinea Bissau, Guyana, Hungary, India, Italy, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Libya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Malaysia, Malta, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Pakistan, Poland, Qatar, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Slovakia, Slovenia, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Tajikistan, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Uganda, the United Kingdom, Venezuela and Zimbabwe had joined the sponsors.
Agenda item 68: Promotion and protection of human rights (continued)
(b) Human rights questions, including alternative approaches for improving the effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms (continued) (A/C.3/71/L.30, A/C.3/71/L.31 and A/C.3/71/L.41)
Draft resolution A/C.3/71/L.30: Promotion of a democratic and equitable international order
2/3
16-19815
A/C.3/71/SR.47
6. Mr. Amoros Nunez (Cuba), introducing the draft resolution, said that its provisions built on the work of the Independent Expert on the promotion of a democratic and equitable international order.
7. Mr. Khane (Secretary of the Committee) said that Angola, Bangladesh, Belarus, Botswana, the Comoros, Congo, Cote d'Ivoire, the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Madagascar, Myanmar, the Russian Federation, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Sri Lanka, Uganda and Zimbabwe had joined the sponsors.
Draft resolution A/C.3/71/L.31: The right to food
8. Mr. Amoros Nunez (Cuba), introducing the draft resolution, said that, while the right to food was widely recognized in international instruments, hundreds of millions of people still suffered from hunger, in part because of the global food crisis, and the vast majority of them lived in developing countries. The draft resolution reaffirmed that hunger was an outrage and violated human dignity, and there was a need to adopt urgent measures at the national, regional and international levels to combat it, including through the mobilization of technical and financial resources from all sources.
9. Mr. Khane (Secretary of the Committee) said that Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Bangladesh, Belarus, Benin, Cabo Verde, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, the Comoros, Congo, Cote d'Ivoire, Djibouti, Gambia, Guinea, Guyana, Guatemala, the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Liberia, Madagascar, Morocco, Paraguay, Qatar, the Russian Federation, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Senegal, South Africa, South Sudan, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Tunisia, Uganda, the United Arab Emirates and Zimbabwe had joined the sponsors.
Draft resolution A/C.3/71/L.41: Missing Persons
10. Mr. Mikayilli (Azerbaijan), introducing the draft resolution, said that the draft resolution was based on General Assembly resolution 69/148 and the relevant resolutions and decisions of the Commission on Human Rights and the Human Rights Council. The issue of missing persons remained a painful reality for countless families around the world as armed conflicts
continued to generate an increasing number of persons reported missing.
11. Mr. Khane (Secretary of the Committee) said that Belarus, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Morocco, Panama, Peru, Uruguay and Uzbekistan had joined the sponsors.
Agenda item 106: Crime prevention and criminal justice (continued) (A/C.3/71/L.4/Rev.1)
Draft resolution A/C.3/71/L.4/Rev. 1: United Nations African Institute for the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders
12. Mr. Manano (Uganda), speaking on behalf of the African Group, said that the draft resolution was an updated version of the text submitted at the seventieth session and reflected the report of the Secretary General on the United Nations Institute for the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders (A/71/121). Most of the language from the previous text had been retained and a few technical and editorial changes had been made to incorporate new developments. The following new paragraphs had been introduced: paragraphs 14 and 15. It had been agreed during the negotiations that the Secretary-General would submit to the General Assembly at its seventythird session a report focusing on the current and future structural, financial, administrative and operational aspects of the Institute, giving due consideration to the need for United Nations system entities to provide the Institute with the financial and technical resources it needed to fulfil its mandate.
Agenda item 60: Report of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, questions related to refugees, returnees and displaced persons and humanitarian questions (continued) (A/C.3/71/L.43)
13. The Chair said that draft resolution A/C.3/71/L.43 had no programme budget implications.
14. Draft resolution A/C.3/71/L.43 was adopted.
The meeting rose at 3.45 p.m.
16-19815
3/3