United Nations
A/c .3/70/SR.44
General Assembly
Seventieth session
Official Records
Distr.: General 7 December 2015
Original: English
Third Committee
Summary record of the 44th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Thursday, 5 November 2015, at 3 p.m.
Chair: Mr. Dempsey (Vice-Chair) (Canada)
Contents
Agenda item 72: Promotion and protection of human rights (continued)
(b) Human rights questions, including alternative approaches for improving the effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms (continued)
(c) Human rights situations and reports of special rapporteurs and representatives (continued)
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Control Unit (srcorrections@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
15-19322 (E)
in ii 11 in wmwwww
Please recycle
A/C.3/70/SR.44
In the absence of Mr. Hilale (Morocco), Mr. Dempsey (Canada), Vice-Chair, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3 p.m.
Agenda item 72: Promotion and protection of human rights (continued) (A/70/40)
(b) Human rights questions, including alternative approaches for improving the effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms (continued) (A/70/56, A/70/111,
A/70/154, A/70/166, A/70/167, A/70/203, A/70/212, A/70/213, A/70/216, A/70/217, A/70/255, A/70/257, A/70/258, A/70/259, A/70/260, A/70/261, A/70/263, A/70/266, A/70/270, A/70/271, A/70/274, A/70/275, A/70/279, A/70/279/Corr.1, A/70/285, A/70/286, A/70/287, A/70/290, A/70/297, A/70/303, A/70/304, A/70/306, A/70/310, A/70/316, A/70/334, A/70/342, A/70/345, A/70/347, A/70/361, A/70/371, A/70/405, A/70/414, A/70/415 and A/70/438)
(c) Human rights situations and reports of special rapporteurs and representatives (continued) (A/70/313, A/70/332, A/70/352, A/70/362, A/70/392, A/70/393, A/70/411, A/70/412, A/C.3/70/2, A/C.3/70/4 and A/C.3/70/5)
1. Mr. Vrailas (Observer for the European Union) said that the delegation of Ukraine aligned itself with his statement. The European Union was deeply committed to the realization of universal and inalienable human rights, and supported the central role of the United Nations in the promotion and protection of human rights worldwide.
2. Any discussion on the state of human rights in the world must start with the Syrian Arab Republic, where the ongoing conflict had killed over 250,000 people, displaced more than 11 million people, and produced the largest humanitarian disaster in recent history. The European Union condemned the excessive, disproportionate and indiscriminate attacks perpetrated by the Syrian regime against its own people, and called for an immediate end to all forms of wilful or indiscriminate attacks that affected civilian areas and structures, including the use of barrel bombs and chemical weapons. The European Union also condemned the attacks on civilians made by other armed groups, and called on all parties to the conflict to obey international humanitarian law and to respect the human rights of all involved.
3. The European Union strongly condemned the atrocities and other human rights abuses perpetrated against Syrian and Iraqi civilians by the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) and other terrorist groups, and was concerned about reports of extrajudicial killings and demographic engineering perpetrated by some armed groups in Iraq, which jeopardized reconciliation. He paid tribute to Syrian human rights defenders, including women human rights defenders, for their tireless efforts to document human rights violations.
4. In the Syrian Arab Republic as elsewhere, there could be lasting peace only if the legitimate grievances of all persons were addressed. Grave human rights abuses, such as those committed by the Assad regime and other actors in the Syrian Arab Republic, and abuses in Libya, the Central African Republic, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and South Sudan, demanded justice and an end to impunity. In addition, the progression to lasting peace and political transition required an inclusive and genuine dialogue and the active pursuit of reconciliation, with effective recognition of the role and involvement of women and full respect for diversity. In the interim, the European Union called on parties to conflict to take steps towards a durable ceasefire, to respect international humanitarian law and to allow safe, unhindered and timely humanitarian access and urgent assistance to those most in need as, for example, in Yemen and Sudan.
5. The European Union was concerned about the current refugee and migration situation, and had stepped up its efforts to respond to crises, with full respect for human rights. If the international response to those conflicts was to address the underlying causes and drivers of violent extremism and persecution, it must be built on full respect for the human rights of all involved. Countries that were the object of Human Rights Council resolutions should cooperate with international human rights mechanisms and avail themselves of the assistance offered.
6. On a global scale, restrictions on the rights of freedom of expression, association and assembly were often falsely legitimized by the need to ensure stability and security. There had been a growing trend of curtailing the activities of civil society and independent media over the past year. In that regard, the European Union called on the Egyptian authorities to face the challenge of terrorism with full respect for
2/10
15-19322
A/C.3/70/SR.44
the rule of law and the freedoms of expression, association and assembly enshrined in the Egyptian Constitution. The sentencing of journalists, demonstrators and prominent activists, and the referral of civilians to military courts, were not suitable means to improve security.
7. Alongside a law-abiding and accountable government, civil society organizations and human rights defenders and free and independent media were important partners in the effort to build inclusive, resilient and flourishing societies. It was only with their free and active participation that sustainable development could be achieved and the drivers of extremism, violence and conflict could be addressed. In many societies, the space in which civil society could operate was shrinking. In China, the mass arrest of lawyers and human rights defenders, the ongoing detention of many of them in undisclosed locations, and the harassment of their relatives, raised serious questions about China's commitment to strengthening the rule of law. China should promote an open and enabling environment for civil society activity, address the root causes of unrest and foster dialogue with all stakeholders, including different ethnic groups. Likewise, in the Russian Federation, the European Union called for an end to intimidation and harassment against lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex persons, the opposition and the independent media, and the restriction of the freedom of expression online and offline, and of the freedoms of assembly and association. The European Union also condemned the continued human rights violations in the Crimean peninsula, including the strangling of civil society and media space, court cases conducted in breach of elementary standards of justice and the unprecedented level of intimidation of the Crimean Tatars and Ukrainian-speaking communities following the illegal annexation of Crimea by the Russian Federation.
8. Positive developments in Sri Lanka included the renewed political will for reconciliation and an inclusive society, for the restoration of democratic institutions, for the establishment of accountability and judicial mechanisms and for constructive cooperation with United Nations human rights bodies; it was now important for the Government of Sri Lanka to make progress on the implementation of its commitments and for the international community to provide coordinated support for those efforts.
9. The full realization of human rights without discrimination was essential to meeting the hybrid challenges faced by the international community in a complex and interconnected world. The European Union was committed to engaging with partners from all regions to tackle those challenges, in the spirit of partnership and cooperation, and with full respect for human rights.
10. Mr. Ona Garces (Ecuador) said that his delegation was deeply concerned that certain States continued to adopt legislation and measures that restricted the exercise of human rights and fundamental freedoms by migrants in violation of their obligations under international law, including international human rights instruments. Recent events, such as in South East Asia and the Mediterranean, raised questions as to how long the international community would continue to ignore the anonymous victims who lost their lives while attempting to cross borders. An effective, consistent response was needed that would bring about solutions to the benefit of future generations. All States had a responsibility to safeguard and protect the human rights of persons forced to migrate as a result of unlawful acts or violence perpetrated on grounds of nationality, ethnic origin or religion. Policies on migrants must highlight the importance of implementing plans and programmes that recognized the positive impact of migrants on countries of destination, thereby facilitating an inclusive environment that was conducive to integration. Ecuador called on all Member States to work to guarantee the protection of the rights of migrant children and adolescents, in particular unaccompanied minors, through the facilitation of repatriation and family reunification programmes.
11. Mr. Poveda Brito (Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela) said that through the exercise of popular and participative democracy, his Government had succeeded in reducing poverty and combating inequality. In July 2015, the National Council for Human Rights had presented a plan to create the conditions necessary to progressively guarantee and safeguard respect for and enjoyment of all human rights for those living within the national territory.
12. His Government's successes in the area of human rights had been broadly recognized by the international community. Venezuela had met all the Millennium Development Goals related to hunger, schooling, women's empowerment and gender equality, child
15-19322
3/10
A/C.3/70/SR.44
development and maternal health, and the fight against HIV/AIDS and malaria. Inequality had been reduced from a coefficient of 0.48 in 1998 to 0.39 on the Gini index, making Venezuela one of the countries with the lowest rate of inequality in the region. In the area of civil and political rights, his Government was aware of the need for social and cultural inclusion and economic equality for a true democracy to exist, and had undertaken efforts to democratize the means of communication and expression, respect the right to freedom of religion and worship and ensure the rights to personal liberty and to physical and moral integrity.
13. Venezuela rejected any action that undermined or restricted fundamental freedoms or human rights, and reiterated the importance of the principles of objectivity, impartiality, non-selectivity and non-politicization. Transparent cooperation, based on the principles of the Charter of the United Nations, should be central to the international human rights system.
14. Ms. Vadiati (Islamic Republic of Iran) said that it was regrettable that, in many cases, the United Nations human rights mechanisms had failed to uphold the principles of equality, objectivity, non-politicization and non-selectivity in their work and had not been effective in fulfilling their duties. For example, they had ignored the circumstances in certain countries that had given rise to extreme takfiri views, which had led to the emergence of violent extremist groups that were now spreading around the world. The humanitarian and human rights disasters born of those ideologies in the Middle East and beyond should serve as a call to self proclaimed advocates of human rights to avoid working only on the basis of their political interests and ignoring their allies' human rights situations. It was deeply regrettable that the counter-productive, illintended and politically motivated policy of naming and shaming by singling out individual countries was still prevalent in United Nations human rights machinery, including the Committee, and was being pursued by a few countries that ironically had the worst records of human rights violations within and outside their territories. The countries responsible for the introduction of politicized and country-specific resolutions and mandates should engage in respectful and equitable dialogue instead of employing pressure and unilateral coercive measures.
15. Her Government hoped that the pledges made by the newly elected Government of Canada would be translated into action, that the human rights situation in
Canada would improve, and that the Canadian Government would commence a process of dialogue, rather than confrontation, with the international community and human rights mechanisms. Her Government remained concerned about reports of non-compliance by Canada's outgoing Government with its international commitments in areas such as the rights of migrants, refugees and women as well as racial discrimination, harassment, targeting and profiling of indigenous women, as well as violence against them.
16. Over the past year, there had been little concrete improvement and, in certain cases, troubling developments, in the situation of human rights around the world. The situation in Occupied Palestine, including East Jerusalem, continued to deteriorate at an alarming rate, as a result of Israel's crimes and violations against the Palestinian people. In the United States of America, there were many human rights issues that had yet to be addressed. Her Government called on the Japanese Government to provide explanations in order to dispel concerns about a wide range of human rights issues, including restrictions placed on freedom of expression and the right to take part in public affairs. While noting Japan's positive engagement in the human rights dialogue with her Government and with the special procedures of the Human Rights Council, her Government hoped to see Japan make progress in protecting the rights of its people and improving the status and rights of women, particularly in the area of high-level decision making. Finally, in Norway, the situation of human rights remained alarming because of persistent discrimination against Roma, indigenous and immigrant communities, as well as prolonged periods of detention and trafficking in persons, particularly girls.
17. Ms. Moutchou (Morocco) said that for over two decades Morocco had prioritized the promotion and protection of human rights. Its 1979 accession to the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights had been strengthened in 2013 when it ratified the International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearances, withdrew certain reservations and acceded to or ratified several optional protocols. Her Government had adopted a strategic, multidimensional approach with regard to the promotion and protection of human rights, which included the elaboration of a national action plan in the area of democracy and human rights,
4/10
15-19322
A/C.3/70/SR.44
justice system reform, a national human development initiative, and a national charter on the environment and sustainable development. Her Government had also launched a number of sectoral plans, including in the areas of agriculture, tourism and industrial development, intended to stimulate the creation of wealth and its enjoyment by all segments of the population.
18. A number of reforms had been introduced that had given rise to an institutional and legal framework that was compatible with both national needs and international standards. The new Constitution adopted in 2011 following a national referendum enshrined universally recognized fundamental rights and freedoms and established institutions for the promotion and protection of those rights. International recognition of those reforms had enabled Morocco to strengthen its cooperation with a number of countries, including through South-South cooperation, and to share experiences in the security, economic, social and cultural fields.
19. Morocco had made considerable progress in the area of the enjoyment of economic, social and cultural rights, despite the difficulties engendered by global economic crises, and had been commended by the United Nations Development Programme and by the United Nations Human Settlements Programme. Her delegation stressed the importance of the role played by civil society in the promotion and protection of human rights and its support of State efforts, and had enshrined that role in the 2011 Constitution.
20. Mr. Grant (Canada) said that Canada took great pride in its commitment to the cause of human rights across the globe. In the midst of a transition following its forty-second democratic election, Canada firmly believed that the peaceful passage of power from one government to the next was a hallmark of strong democracy. Many people around the world continued to face immediate threats to their fundamental human rights; egregious violations and abuses of human rights by both State and non-State actors such as ISIL and Boko Haram were being carried out with impunity. There was also a disturbing trend towards a shrinking space for civil society; while the rights of women and children, and of vulnerable and marginalized groups, including religious and sexual minorities, continued to face mounting challenges.
21. His Government was disappointed that the situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran had not improved, despite the commitments made by the Iranian Government. Although his Government noted Iran's engagement with the international community on its nuclear programmes, it was greatly concerned by the continuing human rights violations flagged by the General Assembly, the Secretary General and the Special Rapporteur, which included a dramatic increase in the number of executions, including of juvenile offenders; the absence of fair trial standards; and ongoing violations of freedoms of expression, opinion, association and peaceful assembly.
22. Ensuring the continued attention of the international community to violations and abuses of human rights was a lifeline for human rights defenders. However, the international community must continue to enhance the tools at its disposal if it wished to effectively address emerging threats to human rights and respond to the needs of the most vulnerable and marginalized people. In that vein, Canada appreciated the expanded role of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (UNHCHR), and the action being taken to enhance field operations and increase partnerships. It was also imperative to ensure that United Nations staff were adequately trained in human rights and that information on violations could be shared. Canada applauded the Human Rights Up Front Action Plan for its work in that regard. Respect for human rights was central to peace, security and development, and joint efforts were needed to develop effective responses to human rights violations and abuses around the world.
23. Mr. Tommo Monthe (Cameroon) said that Cameroon reaffirmed the importance of promoting all human rights on an equal footing and of ensuring the effective implementation and enjoyment of civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights, including the right to development. Education, the most effective means of generating and shaping values, attitudes, behaviours and knowledge, was crucial to ensuring the enjoyment of human rights and promoting the establishment and consolidation of a culture of peace, as well as an environment that was conducive to sustainable development.
24. With regard to the proposed changes to the organizational structure of UNHCHR, Cameroon looked forward to further exchanges between the
15-19322
5/10
A/C.3/70/SR.44
Office and Member States and regional groups so as to ensure full clarity. It was of paramount importance that those changes should not negatively impact the existing regional centres for human rights. Referring to the report of the Secretary-General on the Subregional Centre for Human Rights and Democracy in Central Africa (A/70/405) he said that, since its establishment in 2001, the Centre had made a significant contribution in the subregion; its activities in capacity -building, the promotion of democracy and respect for human rights through the strengthening of national human rights institutions and through training, research and information, were particularly appreciated. His delegation welcomed the decision to continue the Centre's transitional justice programme, in view of the recurrent conflicts in the subregion and the need for reconstruction and integration as the preconditions for true reconciliation. The Centre was performing a vital role in terms of the integration of human rights in development and the economic sphere by promoting awareness in the public and private sectors of their obligations under the guidelines issued by the United Nations. His Government hoped that the reforms envisaged by the High Commissioner would result in a strengthening of the Centre and the provision of sufficient resources to enable it to respond to the increasing needs for the promotion and protection of human rights and the development of a culture of democracy. Collaboration between the Centre and the States of the subregion was crucial, and to be effective, the Centre's priorities, in line with the Strategic Plan of UNHCHR, should take into account the needs and requests expressed by the States of the subregion.
25. Mr. Milanovic (Serbia) said that Serbia was firmly committed to promoting and protecting human rights and cooperating with all United Nations human rights mechanisms, including special procedures. Based on the recommendations from the second cycle of the universal periodic review of the Human Rights Council, his Government had established a council to monitor the implementation of the recommendations of United Nations human rights mechanisms. A multi ethnic country, Serbia's efforts to uphold the rights of ethnic minorities included a decision on the establishment of a council on national minorities in April 2015. His country expected the members of Serbian communities in neighbouring States to be accorded the same rights and level of protection as the members of minority communities in Serbia, in
particular the right to use the Serbian language and the Cyrillic script.
26. Sixteen years after the arrival of the international presence in the United Nations-administered Serbian province of Kosovo and Metohija, Serbs and other non-Albanians continued to encounter obstacles to the exercise of their rights and freedoms. Their personal security was threatened and their participation in civic and political life was fraught with difficulties. Their use of the Serbian language in public life and education was limited, as was their freedom of movement. Mechanisms for property restitution were inadequate, and Serbians were unable to choose their place of return; no conditions were in place for sustainable returns, returnees faced rejection, and there were persistent attempts to root out Serbian cultural and religious heritage. The human rights situation of the Serbian community in Kosovo and Metohija left much to be desired, and was characterized by low intensity ethnically motivated crimes including threats, intimidation and theft. The rights and freedoms of minority communities were being violated on an almost daily basis. Conditions had not been created for members of ethnic communities to live safely or for the sustainable return of more than 200,000 internally displaced persons from other parts of Serbia.
27. Ethnically motivated criminal offences were recorded as general criminal offences in order to conceal the motivation of the perpetrators, painting a false picture of an ethnically tolerant society. The justice system in Kosovo and Metohija was inefficient and impeded access to justice by Serbs and non-Albanians; their complaints were dismissed for procedural reasons, trials were unduly protracted and the few judgments in their favour were not enforced. In addition, arrests and detention of Serbs without legal grounds continued unabated. Since 1999, 236 churches, monasteries and other sites owned by the Serbian Orthodox Church, as well as other cultural and historical monuments, had been the target of attacks in Kosovo and Metohija, and a large number of them had been destroyed. Over 10,000 icons and liturgical items had been stolen.
28. Mr. Otto (Palau), referring to the report of the Special Rapporteur on the right of everyone to the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health (in document A/70/213), said that, as a public health physician, he welcomed the Special Rapporteur's emphasis on a rights-based
6/10
15-19322
A/C.3/70/SR.44
approach to health in ensuring the well -being of children and adults and fostering sustainable development, as well as the recognition that the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development required a shift in focus from survival and physical health to a holistic approach to survival, health, well-being and development. He appreciated the emphasis placed on gender equality, the empowerment of women and women's health rights as integral to child health, as well as the strong emphasis on the right of the child to breastfeed as integral to realizing the child's right to health and development and, by extension, the right of nations to develop. Although breastfeeding was not explicitly mentioned in the 2030 Agenda, it was implicit in the goals on ending childhood malnutrition, reducing child mortality, preventing non-communicable diseases and promoting early childhood development.
29. There was overwhelming scientific evidence that a high-level political commitment to promoting breastfeeding would advance the social and human rights agenda. First, early and exclusive breastfeeding for the first six months of life would prevent at least 1 million infant deaths per year at no cost to families and at only modest cost to Governments for promotion and support services. Second, undernutrition among infants could be virtually eliminated by early and exclusive breastfeeding. Third, breastfeeding was an underused preventive measure for both mothers and their infants against non-communicable diseases as obesity, diabetes, high blood pressure and several common cancers, which constituted the next health challenge for the entire world. Fourth, breastfeeding was an essential part of early childhood care, as it boosted children's intelligence quotients and enhanced school performance in the early years of schooling and throughout life. Because breastfed infants were more likely to complete school and go on to higher education, they were more likely to obtain decent and productive work and avoid poverty for themselves and their families. Fifth, breastfeeding would reap immediate economic dividends, as it was significantly less expensive than feeding infants with formula, and its preventive benefits helped minimize family medical costs and loss in productivity owing to time taken off from work to tend to sick infants. Sixth, mental health and well-being began with the mother-child bond nurtured by breastfeeding. Seventh, individual members of society who enjoyed a state of mental health and well-being would be better equipped to
influence their environment, find and hold a job, pull their families out of poverty and take actions to protect the planet. Action was therefore required to ensure a holistic approach to the rights of the child, and through the child, the right of nations to develop.
30. Mr. Hoxha (Albania) said that his Government was deeply concerned by the growing violence and intolerance against individuals belonging to religious minorities and minority communities in various parts of the world At the 28th International Conference on Peace hosted by his country in September 2015, the presence of Monsignor Sako, the Chaldean Patriarch of Babylon, had served as a living reminder that the Middle East of religious coexistence was alive and well, albeit deeply affected by conflict. Albania's experience had shown that opinions, beliefs and personal choices could provide a path to respectful communication. He therefore reiterated his Government's commitment to respect for and the promotion of human rights and freedoms worldwide, including the freedom of religion or belief.
31. Recalling that Kosovo had filed a request to join the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), whose Executive Board had made a recommendation for admission to the General Conference, he said that Serbia's opposition to the Kosovo bid was based on a distorted picture and a wrong approach. As a member of UNESCO, Kosovo would benefit from the agency's expertise in such areas as formulation and implementation of educational policy; capacity-building in science, engineering and technology; development of a free, independent and pluralistic media; and promotion of human rights. UNESCO could also help Kosovo address social and ethical challenges, and foster cultural diversity and intercultural dialogue. Kosovo's membership would enhance the ability of both Kosovo and Serbia to continue their successful dialogue on cross-border cooperation, protection of the environment, education and protection of cultural heritage. Lastly, UNESCO membership would enhance the responsibility of the Kosovo authorities to implement the relevant international conventions and standards. All stakeholders in Kosovo recognized that South-East Europe was a much more secure, developed and integrated region for having addressed the Kosovo issue. Kosovo's request to join UNESCO should be judged on the merits of supporting education, science and culture in a post-conflict country that needed all
15-19322
7/10
A/C.3/70/SR.44
the tools at its disposal to develop its society and economy, and contribute to regional stability and cooperation. Albania therefore called on all UNESCO member States to vote in favour of the Kosovo's request to join UNESCO at the ongoing General Conference in Paris.
32. Ms. Muedin (International Organization for Migration) said that for some migrants, the search for a better life came at the extremely high cost of unimaginable dangers at the hands of unscrupulous recruiters, smugglers or traffickers. Others experienced abuse and exploitation in their places of transit or destination, including by employers. Those costs tended to affect poorer and lower-skilled migrants, such as domestic workers, the most. According to the report of the Secretary-General (A/70/259), some 83 per cent of domestic workers worldwide were women, many of them migrants, working in a sector rarely covered by labour legislation. The performance of domestic work in the privacy of the home could have an impact on the vulnerability of workers, who were often perceived as being part of the family and therefore not as employees with rights protected by law. With few prospects for permanent residence, naturalization or family reunification, domestic workers' right to family life and access to social protection were undermined. Millions of migrant domestic workers were vulnerable to human rights abuses, often being exposed to sexual and genderbased violence, living in confined quarters with little or no privacy, and faced with limited or non-existent access to health care.
33. Few Governments had ratified the International Labour Organization's Convention No. 189 concerning decent work for domestic workers. In many cases, the degree of informality of employment undermined the proper application of those rights, which depended on the worker-employer relationship. The treatment of migrant domestic workers must improve and their status as professional workers with labour rights, including access to justice and remedies for human rights violations, must be recognized. Migrant domestic workers played a crucial role in enabling others to achieve their goals and at the same time counter the impact of ageing and outmigration in many countries. In closing, she recalled the commitments made in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development to promote decent work and ensure safe, orderly and regular migration involving full respect for human
rights, and urged all stakeholders to take those commitments seriously, ratify all relevant labour conventions and adopt policies that protected the fundamental rights of migrant workers.
Statements made in exercise of the right of reply
34. Mr. Mahmoud (Egypt) said that his delegation categorically rejected the false allegations made by the representative of the European Union. That delegation's postponement of its statement until after the visit to Egypt of the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy amounted to political opportunism. Egypt fully respected the rule of law in its fight against terrorism. Its 2014 Constitution, the most progressive in the country's history, guaranteed the right to freedom of assembly and association. Far from being restricted, civil society organizations had proliferated in the previous five years. Egypt's legislation on regulating demonstrations, which had been drafted after a comprehensive study of similar laws around the world, aimed to deal with the circumstances facing the country in the wake of two major revolutions and would be reviewed by the incoming Parliament.
35. No civilian faced trial before Egyptian military courts except in the event of crimes that constituted an assault on military personnel or facilities. The European Union's insistence on misconstruing those facts betrayed its real motive of selectively targeting Egypt. All demonstrators, journalists and activists who had been imprisoned had been found guilty of violations of the country's criminal code. A cursory glance at international media coverage of Egypt revealed that thousands of journalists operated freely in the country, despite being severely critical of its Government. None had been arrested or prosecuted. The individuals who had been accused had been tried by impartial courts and exercised their right to appeal in an independent and impartial judicial process, leading to the acquittal of many of them, while some of those found guilty had received presidential pardons.
36. Countries with a poor record in the areas of racial discrimination and xenophobia could not take the moral high ground and criticize others. Their failure to take adequate measures to deal with the refugee crisis in their territories attested to a stark double standard; some had even expressed a desire to accept only Christian refugees. Increasing incidents of intolerance, violence, negative stereotyping and discrimination
8/10
15-19322
A/C.3/70/SR.44
against persons based on their religious views - some perpetrated by State authorities themselves - were some instances of the violations committed in European Union member States.
37. In Germany, right-wing extremism, Islamophobia and xenophobia were rampant, while acts of racial discrimination and xenophobia against minority groups, including the Roma communities, had been recorded in France and the Czech Republic. The Governments of France, Germany and the Netherlands had failed to enact reforms to address policies associated with ethnic profiling. The Human Rights Commissioner of the Council of Europe had criticized the extensive use by the Dutch authorities of detention of migrants and asylum seekers. Furthermore, the European Parliament had called on a number of European Union member States to review their laws governing intelligence agencies to ensure that they were in line with human rights standards and subject to effective oversight. With regard to freedom of association, German laws permitted authorities to prohibit the organization of activities determined to undermine democratic order or violate the law. The Government of the United Kingdom had failed to pursue an independent inquiry into its complicity in torture overseas.
38. Mr. Chu Guang (China) said that his delegation firmly rejected the gratuitous and fabricated attacks on the human rights situation in China. The Organization's work on human rights must be guided by universality, objectivity, impartiality and non-selectivity. As selfproclaimed judges and teachers in human rights matters, European Union member States used a magnifying glass to find fault with the human rights situation in some countries while ignoring their own problems. They should instead reflect on those problems, which included xenophobia and discrimination based on race and religion, and stop making accusations against other countries.
39. Ms. Khvan (Russian Federation) recalled that Crimea had exercised its right of self-determination in full conformity with international law and international human rights instruments, including the Charter of the United Nations, the International Covenants on Human Rights, and the Declaration on Principles of International Law concerning Friendly Relations and Cooperation among States in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations. Moreover, Russian legislation was in forces in Crimea, and her
Government was complying with its international human rights obligations. Persons who believed their rights had been violated could defend their interests under the law and had full access to legal bodies. Any information on possible breaches of human rights was investigated by the competent Russian authorities.
40. Mr. Milanovic (Serbia) expressed regret at the numerous comments made, year after year, praising the unilateral declaration of independence by Kosovo. That act had violated the Charter of the United Nations and Security Council resolutions. Contrary to the misleading claim by the representative of Albania, Kosovo was not an independent State; it was and would remain a part of Serbia. Albania's advocacy in favour of Kosovo's UNESCO bid was counterproductive and a violation of international law. The destruction of churches, monasteries and graveyards in Kosovo showed that even the dead were not secure.
41. Mr. Elbahi (Sudan) said that his country had made great strides towards promoting and protecting human rights. The national dialogue launched by his Government had welcomed all components of Sudanese society, including armed groups. Opposition groups who did not wish to participate were guaranteed safe return to their regions. Participation in the dialogue remained open to all. His Government had begun discussions with the Sudan People's Liberation Movement-North in order to address all concerns specific to the Blue Nile and South Kordofan regions. However, that group continued to hinder the dialogue without international accountability. If the European Union was concerned about the problems of other countries, it should encourage the positive steps taken by their Governments and call on opposition movements and other groups to resort to dialogue instead of weapons. Given the heinous violations of human rights perpetrated in many European Union member States, the European Union should limit itself to getting its own house in order if it wished to promote human rights worldwide.
42. Mr. Nina (Albania) reiterated that Kosovo had applied to join UNESCO just as any other country would have done. UNESCO could only stand to benefit from that country's membership. Kosovo, in turn, would benefit from the agency's expertise to protect its cultural and religious heritage and advance in other key areas. The people of Kosovo, irrespective of ethnicity, shared that hope. To date, no apology or restitution had
15-19322
9/10
A/C.3/70/SR.44
been offered for the destruction of hundreds of places of worship, ancient bazaars, libraries and archives by Serbian forces in their systematic campaign against the Albanian population of Kosovo. If Serbia were serious about caring for its cultural heritage in Kosovo, it should be the first advocate for Kosovo's inclusion in UNESCO. However, Kosovo remained not an issue but an obsession for Serbia, which repeatedly attempted to depict an unrealistic picture of the youngest country in South-East Europe. Thankfully, the reality of recent developments, including the conclusion of a Stabilization and Association Agreement with the European Union, attested to the contrary.
43. Mr. Yaremenko (Ukraine) emphasized that there was no Crimean people as such; while many different ethnic groups lived in Crimea, the territory was an integral part of Ukraine. Furthermore, the military operation carried out by the naval and air forces of the Russian Federation did not constitute implementation of the right to self-determination but instead occupation of the territory of an independent State. Lastly, it was unclear to which courts in the Russian Federation Ukrainian citizens could apply to defend their interests in view of recent incidents, including the arrest of the director of the only Ukrainian library in Moscow on the basis of bizarre accusations of the presence of books and newspapers allegedly fomenting anti-Semitism and xenophobia; an attempted raid on a Ukrainian cultural centre in Moscow; and a night-time raid on the former management of the only Crimean Tatar television channel in Crimea.
44. Mr. Mahmoud (Egypt) said that the insistence by European Union member States on misrepresenting developments in Egypt reflected either complete ignorance of that country's political landscape or, worse, bad faith and a desire to appease domestic constituencies at the expense of objectivity. Egypt's legislative developments were crucial to safeguarding the interests of the people and State and saving them from the tragic fate that had engulfed neighbouring States, a situation to which some countries represented in the Committee had directly contributed. Meanwhile, as noted by the Greek Prime Minister, the European Union was sidestepping its responsibility over the migrant crisis and crying hypocritical tears for children who had drowned trying to reach its shores.
The meeting rose at 4.20 p.m.
10/10
15-19322