United Nations
A/C.3/72/SR.54
^ General Assembly
Seventy-second session
Official Records
Distr.: General 27 June 2018
Original: English
Third Committee
Summary record of the 54th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Tuesday, 5 June 2018, at 10 a.m.
Chair: Mr. Idris (Vice-Chair) (Eritrea)
Contents
Agenda item 5: Election of officers of the Main Committees
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Management Section (dms@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
18-09501 (E)
i iiiiii huh 5Hii
A/C.3/72/SR.54
In the absence of Mr. Gunarsson (Iceland), Chair, Mr Idris (Eritrea), Vice-Chair, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 12.15 p.m.
Agenda item 5: Election of officers of the Main Committees of the General Assembly
1. The Chair said that it was his understanding that the Group of Asia-Pacific States had endorsed the candidacy of Mr. Saikal (Afghanistan) for the post of Chair of the Committee at the seventy-third session of the General Assembly, under rule 103 of the rules of procedure and according to established practice.
2. Mr. Saikal (Afghanistan) was elected Chair of the Committee for the seventy-third session of the General Assembly by acclamation.
3. The Chair said that Mr. Kovacik (Slovakia) had been endorsed by the Group of Eastern European States and Mr. Molina (Guatemala) had been nominated by his own Government as Vice-Chairs of the Committee.
4. Mr. Kovacik (Slovakia) and Mr. Molina (Guatemala) were elected Vice-Chairs by acclamation.
5. The Chair said that it was his understanding that the Group of Western European and Other States had endorsed the candidature of Ms. Konzett-Stoffl (Austria) for the post of Rapporteur.
6. Ms. Konzett-Stoffl (Austria) was elected
Rapporteur by acclamation.
The meeting rose at 12.20p.m.
2/2
1
■09501