United Nations
A/C.3/69/SR.5
General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
Official Records
Distr.: General 4 November 2014
Original: English
Third Committee
Summary record of the 5th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Thursday, 9 October 2014, at 10 a.m.
Chair: Ms. Mesquita Borges (Timor-Leste)
Contents
Agenda item 105: Crime prevention and criminal justice*
Agenda item 106: International drug control*
* Items which the Committee has decided to consider together.
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Control Unit (srcorrections@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
14-62342 (E)
in i iiiiii wmmwv
Please recycle
A/C.3/69/SR.5
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 105: Crime prevention and criminal justice (A/69/86, A/69/88, A/69/89, A/69/92 and A/69/94)
Agenda item 106: International drug control
(A/69/87-E/2014/80 and A/69/111)
1. Mr. Fedotov (Executive Director, United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime) said that that the international community was discussing how best to address the challenges of transnational organized crime, illicit drugs and corruption in various forums, including meetings on the post-2015 development agenda and the ongoing seventh session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime. Future opportunities included the Thirteenth United Nations Congress on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice in 2015 and the special session of the General Assembly on the world drug problem in 2016. The high-level review of the Political Declaration and Plan of Action on International Cooperation towards an Integrated and Balanced Strategy to Counter the World Drug Problem had led to inclusive and informed discussions under the able leadership of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs, which, in draft resolution A/C.3/69/L.8, was also tasked with leading an inclusive preparatory process for the special session of the General Assembly.
2. The United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) provided technical assistance for implementing the international instruments on drugs, transnational organized crime, corruption and terrorism. It assisted international coordination through its country, regional and global programmes, including new initiatives such as “Networking the Networks” and the Maritime Crime Programme. It provided analysis of trends in different areas of organized crime, including wildlife crime, and managed the United Nations Voluntary Trust Fund for Victims of Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children. While UNODC was grateful for the support received and the rapid rise in voluntary contributions, it needed a steady stream of predictable funding to operate effectively.
3. With respect to the control of illicit drugs, the United Nations advocated increasing the focus on public health, prevention and treatment as well as
economic, social and cultural measures, in full compliance with human rights standards. More must be done to promote access to controlled pain medicines while preventing their diversion and abuse, as well as to provide a continuum of care for drug users. Law enforcement efforts should focus on the drug lords rather than the drug users, and viable alternative livelihoods must be found for those cultivating illicit crops. In short, it was necessary to address all aspects of supply and demand through balanced, coordinated action. Specific challenges included helping weak public health sectors to cope with the social and health consequences of drug use, as well as grappling with drug-related criminal violence in Central America; the nexus of drugs, crime and terrorism in West Africa and the Sahel; and record levels of opium poppy cultivation and heroin production in Afghanistan.
4. Mr. Shamaa (Chair, Commission on Narcotic Drugs), reporting on the work of the Commission at its fifty-seventh session, introduced his report on the outcome of the Commission's high-level review of the implementation of the Political Declaration and Plan of Action on International Cooperation towards an Integrated and Balanced Strategy to Counter the World Drug Problem. The report contained summaries of three round-table discussions on the pillars of the Plan of Action - demand reduction, supply reduction and international cooperation - as well as the text of the Joint Ministerial Declaration adopted at the session, which recognized the emergence of new challenges, noted ongoing discussions in some regions on how to address the evolving world drug problem and emphasized the importance of broad, transparent, inclusive and evidence-based discussion among Member States on the most effective ways to meet the commitments and targets set out in the Political Declaration and Plan of Action.
5. In accordance with General Assembly resolution 67/193, the Commission had taken charge of the preparatory process for the special session of the General Assembly on the world drug problem. The Commission, in its resolution 57/5, had decided to take all necessary measures to use its existing meeting and reporting entitlements in the most efficient manner to ensure adequate preparation for the special session. Thus far it had created a website to act as an information hub and held web-casted intersessional meetings for all interested stakeholders, and it would be holding a segment on the special session at its
2/10
14-62342
A/C.3/69/SR.5
reconvened fifty-seventh session in December 2014. Also in accordance with General Assembly resolution 67/193, the Commission had submitted
recommendations on the preparation and conduct of the special session for consideration by the General Assembly at its sixty-ninth session. In the draft resolution contained in document A/C.3/69/L.8, the special session was recognized as an opportunity for high-level discussion leading up to the 2019 target date for implementation of the Political Declaration and Plan of Action, and it was decided that the preparatory process should include extensive, substantive consultations among all stakeholders and should be led by the Commission on Narcotic Drugs with the support and guidance of the President of the General Assembly.
6. Many were calling for a practical approach to the session based on strengthening the implementation of existing policy documents, making full use of available tools and sharing evidence and expertise at the national and regional levels. The proposed substantive coverage promoted a balanced approach, with due consideration to both health and criminal justice aspects, and also considered the link between drug issues and development and human rights. The proposed format would combine a general debate with interactive workshops, with a view producing practical recommendations and encouraging the active involvement of all stakeholders, including youth representatives.
7. Mr. Rattray (Jamaica), speaking on behalf of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), said that to improve its management, support and oversight functions, UNODC needed increased, predictable funding from the regular budget, as well as more voluntary and non-earmarked contributions. Recognizing that crime prevention and criminal justice were integral to sustainable development, CARICOM had adopted the CARICOM Crime and Security Strategy in 2013. The influence of organized crime pervaded many aspects of life in the region. Criminal organizations, in some cases with an asset base surpassing that of some countries, operated like multinational corporations, with business segments in weapons trafficking, human trafficking, money laundering, online scamming and fraud. While the region's countries had fought back with some success, the battle was diverting limited resources from other development activities. CARICOM was therefore pleased to be a partner in the UNODC Regional
Programme (2014-2016) in support of the CARICOM Crime and Security Strategy. CARICOM welcomed the imminent entry into force of the Arms Trade Treaty and stood ready to work with origin States to stem the flow of weapons through the region, which fuelled domestic crime and gang warfare, leading to an insidious cycle of crime, poverty and underdevelopment. It fully supported the bid of Trinidad and Tobago to host the secretariat of the Arms Trade Treaty.
8. With respect to the special session of the General Assembly on the world drug problem, CARICOM urged the Commission to solicit, facilitate and give due consideration to the views and contributions of all Member States, not just those with a strong presence in Vienna. Noting the proposal to provide assistance to the least developed countries in the preparatory work, he anticipated that CARICOM member States would benefit from similar assistance. The special session would provide an opportunity to re-evaluate strategies, consider approaches and examine best practices. Social interventions targeting demand reduction should go hand in hand with supply reduction, and criminalization should not be overemphasized. CARICOM was taking into consideration the negative effects of heavy criminal sanctions for minor drug offences and was also examining the possibility and implications of decriminalizing marijuana.
9. Ms. Malenga (Democratic Republic of the Congo), speaking on behalf of the Southern African Development Community (SADC), said that poverty, unemployment, high HIV rates and inadequate justice systems continued to hobble crime prevention efforts in the region, where uneven economic development and high levels of social inequality provided fertile ground for organized crime. Transnational organizations took advantage of easy cross-border trade, diverse legal systems and imperfect informationsharing among law enforcement agencies in the region. Domestic and transnational crime was on the rise, and some countries were also experiencing increased heroin, cocaine and amphetamine trafficking and use. Most member States were still not adequately equipped in terms of crime prevention, prosecutorial capacity and legislation to deal with transnational crimes such as acts of terrorism, cybercrimes and financial crimes. In addition, there was a consensus that SADC countries needed to improve the basic living conditions of prisoners.
14-62342
3/10
A/C.3/69/SR.5
10. The SADC member States were working to improve the capacity and transparency of their criminal justice systems; they were strengthening their judicial systems, training law enforcement and prison staff, building more drug and alcohol rehabilitation centres and conducting research. In view of the crucial nature of cooperation, they had signed numerous regional protocols on various aspects of crime prevention and prosecution, and they were establishing partnerships with law enforcement agencies at the regional and global levels. Furthermore, SADC was a partner in the UNODC-SADC Joint Regional Programme to Make the SADC Region Safer from Crime and Drugs, and the Southern African Regional Police Chiefs Cooperation Organization had reaffirmed its commitment to making the SADC region safer from crime and illicit drugs. SADC attached great importance to the international drug control conventions and international instruments on transnational organized crime. It remained committed to the fight against crime and drugs, which should be a central pillar of the development agenda.
11. Mr. Haniff (Malaysia), speaking on behalf of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), said that transnational crime was becoming increasingly pervasive and diversified in a borderless digital world, and stronger, more effective regional and international cooperation was required to combat it. Cooperation on transnational crime within ASEAN took place primarily at its Ministerial Meetings on Transnational Crime, which discussed the framework for cooperation and oversaw implementation, and its Senior Officials Meetings on Transnational Crime (SOMTC), which implemented and reviewed decisions taken by the Ministerial Meetings. The SOMTC Work Programme 2013-2015 outlined policies, guidelines and activities in eight priority areas, including terrorism, trafficking in persons, sea piracy and arms smuggling. In the context of implementing the ASEAN Political Security Community Blueprint by the 2015 deadline for regional integration, ASEAN had convened the first SOMTC Working Group on Cybercrime in May 2014 and was drafting an ASEAN convention on trafficking in persons as well as a regional plan of action for the same purpose. It would continue to discuss cooperation on combatting transnational crime with its dialogue partners, including China, Japan and the Republic of Korea, and was pleased at the significant progress achieved on ASEAN-Japan cooperation in 2014, evidenced by the inaugural ASEAN-Japan Cybercrime
Dialogue and the ninth ASEAN-Japan Counterterrorism Dialogue.
12. ASEAN welcomed the Secretary-General's recommendation that UNODC should continue to help Member States build their capacity for rule-of-lawbased criminal justice responses to terrorism. ASEAN had developed a regional Convention on CounterTerrorism and was redoubling its efforts to implement the ASEAN Work Plan on Combatting Illicit Drug Production, Trafficking and Use 2009-2015, as well as the drug control-related provisions of the Roadmap for an ASEAN Community (2009-2015). The thirty-fifth meeting of ASEAN Senior Officials on Drug Matters, held in July 2014, had discussed measures to strengthen border, air and seaport control, promote joint operations and exchange information in connection with the emergence of new psychotropic substances. ASEAN lauded the development-oriented drug control programmes of UNODC in South-East Asia, which had improved the livelihoods of the targeted small farmer households in opium-growing areas of the Lao People's Democratic Republic and Myanmar. As it geared towards regional integration, ASEAN would continue to strive to make the new ASEAN Community free from drugs and crime.
13. Mr. Rybakov (Belarus), speaking on behalf of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), said that the CIS member States were experiencing an increase in transnational organized crime, which was often linked to terrorism, as well as being a source of financing for terrorism. Criminal organizations had a growing influence on legitimate businesses. Especially with the globalization of finance, problems such as the cross-border trafficking of conventional weapons for terrorist purposes, the transit and sale of illicit drugs, the use of information and communication technology for illegal purposes and corruption could not be addressed effectively without multilateral and international cooperation. The CIS member States cooperated with the United Nations and its agencies, including first and foremost UNODC, had acceded to the basic United Nations instruments on crime prevention and criminal justice and had also concluded agreements in those areas within the framework of the United Nations. They were strengthening cooperation on human trafficking at the national and international levels, including through participation in the World Day against Trafficking in Persons, established at the initiative of Belarus. On 10 October, the Council of
4/10
14-62342
A/C.3/69/SR.5
Heads of State of the CIS was expected to adopt intra-CIS programmes of cooperation on illegal migration and combatting human trafficking, as well as a statement expressing support for the international drug control system.
14. The CIS member States especially commended the report of the Secretary-General on implementation of the mandates of the United Nations crime prevention and criminal justice programme, with particular reference to the technical cooperation activities of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (A/69/94). CIS fully supported the technical cooperation activities of UNODC and would appreciate similar assistance for its members.
15. Mr. Mayr-Harting (Observer for the European Union) speaking also on behalf of the candidate countries Albania, Montenegro, Serbia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Turkey; the stabilization and association process country Bosnia and Herzegovina; and, in addition, Armenia, Georgia, the Republic of Moldova and Ukraine, said that transnational crime must be tackled in a holistic, integrated manner at all levels and that cross-border threats could be countered only through effective judicial and law enforcement cooperation between States and regions. The European Union and its member States was in favour of a strong review mechanism for the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime, which should complement existing efforts and should include the exchange of good practice, identification of needs for technical assistance and civil society participation. The Convention provided important technical support for extradition, mutual legal assistance and asset forfeiture. The European Union made a financial contribution to UNODC and supported the work of the relevant United Nations bodies.
16. The European Union had developed a strategic and operational approach aimed at enhancing law enforcement cooperation within its borders and with its partners, prioritizing drug and firearms trafficking, irregular migration, cybercrime, property crime and counterfeit and substandard goods. It had ratified the Firearms Protocol to the Convention in March 2014 after having fully transposed it into European law. It had also adopted a strategy to better secure licit firearms sales, reduce the diversion of firearms and improve firearms-related law enforcement, data collection and security, and it would be implementing
an operational action plan for the period 2014-2017 that called for coordinated collection of information on firearms crime; police control operations to tackle the sources and routes of illegal firearms; and joint police customs operations with neighbouring countries.
17. With regard to corruption, the European Union was committed to increasing compliance with international commitments such as the United Nations Convention against Corruption. It supported the work of all of the Convention's working groups and called on United Nations Member States to embrace field visits and to involve civil society in the Convention's review process. The European Union's first Anti-Corruption Report assessed how each of its member States was tackling corruption and made recommendations for future national action.
18. The European Union urged the General Assembly to adopt a resolution on combatting the illegal trade in wildlife. While the Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and the Convention against Corruption could play an important role, it was crucial to strength both the legal framework and enforcement. The European Union was providing significant additional support for enforcement in developing countries and was reviewing its own legal and policy frameworks. With respect to drug-related problems, its anti-drug strategy for 2013-2020 could make a valuable contribution to the regional and global discussion. It was particularly concerned that a number of States continued to apply the death penalty for drugrelated crimes, which were not even considered to be in the category of “most serious crimes”.
19. The European Union fully supported the inclusion of the rule of law, crime prevention and criminal justice in the post-2015 development agenda. In the context of preparations for the special session of the General Assembly on the world drug problem, it stressed the need to strengthen international cooperation on demand reduction and to support sustainable alternative development programmes, taking into account the Guiding Principles on Drug Demand Reduction and the United Nations Guiding Principles on Alternative Development. During the session, it would be emphasizing its own evidencebased best practices for prevention, treatment, risk and harm reduction, recovery, social reintegration and rehabilitation, as well as alternative approaches to incarceration. The preparatory process should include not only the relevant United Nations bodies and
14-62342
5/10
A/C.3/69/SR.5
specialised agencies, but also other international bodies such as the International Narcotics Control Board and the World Health Organization, as well as regional organizations, civil society and the scientific community.
20. The mid-term report on the implementation of the European Union Strategy towards the Eradication of Trafficking in Human Beings 2012-2016 would be released in a few weeks. The European Union was committed to addressing trafficking in persons in a victim-centred and holistic way. Its long-standing engagement in the fight against piracy in the western Indian Ocean was reflected in its naval operation Atalanta. Local efforts to tackle piracy in West Africa deserved coordinated international support. The European Union was continuing to help seven African countries increase the safety of maritime routes in the Gulf of Guinea in accordance with the strategy on the Gulf of Guinea adopted in March 2014.
21. Mr. Cardi (Italy) said that the United Nations was the most appropriate context in which to strengthen international cooperation on preventing crime and strengthening criminal justice systems. As a long-standing strong supporter of the activities of UNODC and its predecessors, Italy would be introducing the traditional draft resolution on strengthening the United Nations crime prevention and criminal justice programme, in particular its technical cooperation capacity.
22. Mr. Brownfield (United States of America) said that the three drug control conventions, the Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and the Convention against Corruption provided a resilient framework for establishing common definitions of illicit behaviour; ensuring compatible legal standards and criminal justice responses; and promoting stronger cross-border cooperation. As threats evolved, the international community should show tolerance as Governments tried new national policies to address specific national concerns, provided they promoted the aims of the conventions. In September 2014, the Organization of American States had adopted a resolution on drug policy that articulated a hemispheric consensus. It recognized that a public health approach was the bedrock of sound drug policy and that a sensible criminal justice system should ensure fairness and proportionality in penalties. He welcomed that more humane and effective position and was proud that his own country was redressing past inequities in its
criminal justice system. The resolution also recognized the need for better coordination and cooperation.
23. Through the Commission on Narcotic Drugs, Member States had established an effective plan for preparing for the special session of the General Assembly on the world drug problem, and he urged the General Assembly to adopt that plan without amendment. UNODC was an essential partner of sovereign Governments in their efforts to combat transnational organized crime through its work on implementing technical assistance projects around the world. The United States looked forward to the Thirteenth United Nations Conference on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice.
24. Mr. Zagaynov (Russian Federation) said that his country supported the strengthening of the international treaties on crime prevention as well as the central coordinating role of the United Nations. It welcomed the United Nations Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons, as well as the growing support for the United Nations Voluntary Trust Fund for Victims of Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children. In that context, it was particularly concerned about illicit trafficking in human organs. The Russian Federation would like UNODC to participate more actively in policy analysis and research and urged increased funding for the Office, including a higher percentage of funding from the regular budget.
25. Existing gaps in the legal framework for crime prevention could be filled by negotiating a United Nations convention against the criminal use of information and communication technology and another on mutual legal assistance. The relatively new challenge of illegal trafficking in protected species also called for an appropriate new instrument, perhaps in the form of a fourth protocol to the Convention against Transnational Organized Crime. The sixth session of the Conference of the States Parties to the United Nations Convention against Corruption would be held in the Russian Federation in 2015. The United Nations should continue to focus on those issues, especially in the context of countering illegal financial flows and money-laundering.
26. To combat drug-related crimes, it was crucial to enhance interactions among States, international, regional and civil society organizations, the business community and the mass media. The Russian
6/10
14-62342
A/C.3/69/SR.5
Federation had consistently supported preserving and strengthening the existing international drug control regime on the basis of the three major United Nations international drug control conventions and would continue to cooperate closely with the International Narcotics Control Board. It opposed efforts to undermine that regime. Controversial methods based on harm reduction, such as legalization in any form, should not be put forward as a global standard. In combatting the scourge of illicit drugs, priority should be giving to strengthening the drug control institutions, creating international, inter-State and non-governmental mechanisms for improving the rehabilitation of drug users, increasing targeted pressure on drug production, improving communications between law enforcement authorities and applying a single illicit crop production policy that included alternative development programmes. The special session of the General Assembly on the world drug problem would be an important step on the road to a full scale review in 2019 of the implementation of the Political Declaration and Plan of Action on International Cooperation towards an Integrated and Balanced Strategy to Counter the World Drug Problem. Preparations for the session should be based on a comprehensive approach within UNODC.
27. His country supported the efforts of UNODC to build capacity in Afghanistan, its neighbours and the other countries most adversely affected by opiates from Afghanistan. There should be capacity-building in the context of the Paris Pact to halt the spread of Afghan narcotics and the related financial flows. His delegation welcomed the adoption in June of the first Security Council presidential statement on the problem of Afghan drugs and commended the results of the Financial Action Task Force typological study on detecting and blocking financial flows linked to illicit traffic in Afghan opiates, which had been undertaken at the Russian Federation's initiative. Regional organizations such as the Collective Security Treaty Organization, the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe and the Eurasian Group on Combatting Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing also played an important role in combatting illegal financial flows. With respect to the growing threat of synthetic drugs, while the international community must take immediate steps to counter their spread, a global mechanism would eventually be necessary to monitor illicit trafficking.
28. Mr. Reyes Rodriguez (Cuba) said that no one country could combat terrorism, drug trafficking, trafficking in persons, arms trafficking or money laundering without international cooperation, which must be based on respect for national sovereignty and national laws. International actions should give priority to prevention, development and the establishment of a democratic and equitable international economic order. They must not be allowed to serve the hegemonic ambitions of any country.
29. Through the combined efforts of its public health, judicial, law enforcement and labour institutions, Cuba had developed effective programmes for preventing drug-related crimes, including programmes that provided medical care, rehabilitation and social services for drug users, while at the regional and international levels it remained committed to full cooperation on the world drug problem. Cuban law defined and penalized the crimes associated with organized criminal activity, and Cuba was a party to the vast majority of the relevant international treaties, as well as to the international instruments on terrorism.
30. Cuba condemned the United States practice of unilaterally designating States as sponsors of terrorism or complicit in human or drug trafficking, which served only as a pretext for illegal coercive policies, as well as the United States Cuban Adjustment Act, which encouraged dangerous illegal migration from Cuba and trafficking in Cuban citizens. Thousands of Cubans had been injured or killed by terrorists living in the United States who had never been prosecuted or punished, while three Cubans whose only crime had been to gather intelligence on anti-Cuban terrorists groups had unjustly been detained for more than 15 years by the United States authorities. Cuba demanded their release. The Cuban territory had never been and never would be used to organize, fund or carry out terrorist acts against any country. Cuba reiterated its willingness to cooperate with all countries, including the United States of America, to prevent and combat international terrorism, on the basis of mutual respect, sovereign equality and the principles and standards of international law.
31. Mr. Joshi (India) said that a robust international control system was required to facilitate the legal trade in precursor chemicals. As a leading manufacturer, India had issued new regulations in 2013 on most of the chemicals covered by the United Nations Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs
14-62342
7/10
A/C.3/69/SR.5
and Psychotropic Substances. It had also built an online monitoring system for psychotropic substances. In accordance with the principle of balance established in the international drug control conventions, it had recently amended its principle drug law to eliminate unnecessary barriers to strong pain medicines. Lastly, it was using social media to inform young people of the dangers of drug abuse. With respect to regional and international cooperation, it had entered into memorandums of understanding with each of its neighbours, and its drug enforcement agencies had strengthened cooperation with international agencies and UNODC.
32. India participated in all the major global initiatives against international terrorism and was seeking to intensify cooperation against the financing of terrorism and counterfeit currency through capacity building, information exchange and the sharing of best practices. Member States must finally put aside their differences and muster the political will to negotiate the comprehensive convention on international terrorism envisioned in General Assembly resolution 51/210. India called for a stronger, more effective international response to the new challenge of cybercrime, as well as to the continued challenges of corruption and organized crime, including trafficking in persons, firearms and cultural property; migrant smuggling, urban organized crime and crimes against women and children. It had recently amended its 2012 Prevention of Money Laundering Act to cover the laundering of money derived from drug trafficking, precursor diversion and other serious transnational crimes. India stood ready to contribute to the global response to transnational crime, terrorism and illicit drug trafficking, which were clearly interrelated.
33. Mr. Hisajima (Japan) said that Member States must work together to address crime prevention and criminal justice, which, as preconditions for the rule of law, were essential to economic and social development. Japan was an active member of both the Commission on Narcotic Drugs and the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice and would continue to cooperate closely with UNODC, including through the Strategic Policy Dialogue initiated in 2013. Japan had made combatting trafficking in persons a policy priority and directly and indirectly supported a range of technical assistance projects, particularly in South-East Asia. It was once again revising its action
plan to combat trafficking in persons and would be improving its technical intern training programme.
34. Japan would continue to contribute its expertise to global efforts to counter the manufacture of synthetic drugs and the new psychoactive substances. In that connection, it had decided to present its candidature for election to the Commission on Narcotic Drugs in 2015 and was constructively engaged in the preparatory process for the special session of the General Assembly on the world drug problem. With respect to the growing threat of cyberterrorism, Japan stressed the need for national capacity-building, increased international cooperation based on existing frameworks and increased regional cooperation, such as the first ASEAN-Japan Cybercrime Dialogue, held in Singapore in May. Japan looked forward to the Thirteenth United Nations Congress on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice on the theme of integrating crime prevention and criminal justice into the wider United Nations agenda and supported the inclusion of the rule of law in the post-2015 development agenda. In that connection, Japan underlined the importance of a culture of lawfulness, for which it was necessary to foster respect for and trust in the law and to establish effective legal and judicial systems.
35. Ms. Kalb (Austria) expressed appreciation to the Chair of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs for his efforts to involve civil society and the entire United Nations family in the preparatory process for the special session of the General Assembly on the world drug problem. She welcomed the Chair's non-paper and his proposed workshop topics, which should provide an excellent basis for meaningful discussion on crucial issues such as risk and harm reduction, the death penalty and alternative development. The special session would help to create the political momentum needed to fully implement the commitments and targets set out in the Political Declaration and Plan of Action by the 2019 target date.
36. Mr. Ruangkajorn (Thailand) said that his country had benefited greatly from many of the technical cooperation and capacity-building activities of UNODC. Convinced that crime prevention, the rule of law and sustainable development were mutually reinforcing, Thailand had consistently promoted the inclusion of the rule of law in the post-2015 development agenda. Following the Bangkok Dialogue on the Rule of Law in 2013, it had for the second time
8/10
14-62342
A/C.3/69/SR.5
submitted through the Economic and Social Council a draft resolution on the rule of law, crime prevention and criminal justice in the United Nations development agenda beyond 2015, contained in A/C.3/69/L.6. It welcomed the development-related theme of the Thirteenth United Nations Congress on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice and was confident that the contributions of the Asia and Pacific Regional Preparatory Meeting and the other similar meetings would ensure an outcome document that reflected a cross-regional vision of crime prevention beyond 2015.
37. Thailand attached great importance to a rightsbased approach in criminal justice. Regarding crime prevention and the rights of the child, Thailand, Austria and UNODC would soon host a high-level panel discussion on implementing the proposed United Nations model strategies and practical measures on the elimination of violence against children in the field of crime prevention and criminal justice. Thailand was working closely with UNODC to prepare for the meeting of the open-ended intergovernmental expert group on gender-related killing of women and girls, scheduled for November in Thailand. Lastly, it highly appreciated the support of UNODC for the United Nations Guiding Principles on Alternative Development and remained committed to sharing its own best practices in alternative development.
38. Ms. Alsaleh (Syrian Arab Republic) said that her country was a party to most of the international instruments on crime prevention and human trafficking, including the Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and its Trafficking in Persons Protocol. It had transposed the Protocol into national law and had laid the foundation for international cooperation to counter human trafficking. However, the Syrian Arab Republic was no longer one of the safest countries in the region. Foreign terrorist groups, armed, trained and funded with the full support of regional and international actors, were perpetrating crimes of every kind, including human trafficking, pillaging, smuggling, destruction of mosques and robbery and destruction of archaeological sites. She called on the regional and international actors responsible to respect their international obligations, including the provisions of Security Council resolution 2178 (2014), by preventing the cross-border movement of terrorists and blocking terrorist funding.
39. The flight of civilian populations had led to a horrific rise in trafficking in human organs, particularly
in border areas, where unlicensed organizations had set up field hospitals with the full knowledge of the authorities of certain neighbouring States. The United Nations should take steps to identify both the perpetrators, and those who were giving the orders and to prevent the spread of such crimes. Refugee camps for displaced Syrians were experiencing significant rates of organized crime, child labour, trafficking in girls and other crimes against which the host Governments had a responsibility to take immediate action. She urged UNODC to commit itself in a more effective and transparent manner to rooting out the underlying causes of the spread of transnational organized crime, terrorism, human trafficking, smuggling, mercenary warfare and trafficking in cultural property and to provide support for the countries affected.
40. Mr. Liang Heng (China) expressed the hope that the 2016 special session of the General Assembly and its preparatory process would create the consensus needed to tackle the challenges of the world drug problem, including by fully tapping the potential of the existing drug control system. In view of the able leadership demonstrated by the Commission on Narcotics Drugs thus far, it should remain in charge of the preparatory process. China would work with all participants in the Thirteenth United Nations Congress on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice to agree on priority goals for future cooperation, including recommendations for strengthening international cooperation on tracking and recovering stolen assets and for combatting terrorism, crimes of violence, cybercrime and emerging forms of crime such as the destruction of cultural property. It would continue to work to give new impetus to the effective implementation of the Convention against Transnational Organized Crime. With respect to the Convention against Corruption, China called on Member States to enhance cooperation on the recovery and return of stolen assets and on tracking down offenders. They should also uphold the terms of reference and basic principles of the Mechanism for the Review of Implementation of the United Nations Convention against Corruption.
41. In 2014 China had adopted a plan of action on combatting drug-related criminal activities and preventing the spread of illicit drugs that set 2020 goals of greater public awareness of drug control, a more scientific rehabilitation system and more
14-62342
9/10
A/C.3/69/SR.5
effective suppression of trafficking and domestic manufacture. To combat corruption, it had instituted more rigorous anti-corruption measures and launched an unrelenting campaign to investigate and punish instances of corruption, always in accordance with the rule of law. In October 2014, the eighteenth National Congress of the Chinese Communist Party would adopt comprehensive measures to advance the rule of law. With respect to multilateral and international cooperation, the recently signed Memorandum of Understanding on Drug Control in the Greater Mekong subregion set priorities for further cooperation in the subregion. Also, thanks to multilateral and international efforts, China had been able to root out a large number of cross-border drug-trafficking gangs and take down four child pornography websites. A declaration on the protection and return of illicitly exported cultural property adopted in September at the fourth International Conference of Experts on the Return of Cultural Property would boost international cooperation in that sphere.
42. Ms. Solorzano (Nicaragua) attributed her country's low level of crime to coordinated Government policy. Nicaragua's policing model was preventive, proactive and community-based. In accordance with the same philosophy, young people in Nicaragua had been mobilized in social and economic movements that kept them away from drugs and crime while improving the lives of whole communities. Strategically located controls stopped drug trafficking at its land, sea and air borders. Nicaragua was a transit country for drugs moving from south to north, yet despite receiving very little international assistance, it had become one of the safest countries in Latin America. The most effective way to reduce national and transnational crime of all kinds was by strengthening values and reducing poverty, and she called on the international community to help Nicaragua move forward by meeting its cooperation commitments.
The meeting rose at 12.35 p.m.
10/10
14-62342