United Nations
A/C.3/70/SR.6
General Assembly
Seventieth session
Official Records
Distr.: General 19 October 2015
Original: English
Third Committee
Summary record of the 6th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Thursday, 8 October 2015, at 3 p.m.
Chair: Mr. Mohamed (Vice-Chair) (Guyana)
Contents
Agenda item 106: Crime prevention and criminal justice (continued) Agenda item 107: International drug control (continued)
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Control Unit (srcorrections@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
15-17406 (E)
in ii ii i ii mwmwv
A/C.3/70/SR.6
In the absence of Mr. Hilale (Morocco), Mr. Mohamed (Guyana), Vice-Chair, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda item 106: Crime prevention and criminal justice (continued) (A/70/90-E/2015/81, A/70/93, A/70/99, A/70/94, A/70/121 and A/70/407)
Agenda item 107: International drug control
(continued) (A/70/87-E/2015/79 and A/70/98)
1. Ms. Alipui (Angola), speaking on behalf of the Southern African Development Community (SADC), said that the authorities were gradually bringing crime under better control in the region, thanks to prevention and mitigation policies, more effective strategies for dealing with the realities of a more complex, digital world, and cooperation with various organs and institutions, both locally and internationally, in crime prevention and criminal justice.
2. While human trafficking remained a major concern, drug trafficking continued to pose even more significant threats, and SADC thus attached great importance to the Political Declaration and Plan of Action on International Cooperation towards an Integrated and Balanced Strategy to Counter the World Drug Problem, adopted at the twentieth special session of the General Assembly, the Doha Declaration on the TRIPS Agreement and Public Health, and the international drug control conventions which provided the legislative framework for international cooperation and coordination in combating drug trafficking. High levels of poverty and unemployment, inadequate justice systems and high HIV rates were at the root of drug trafficking, drug abuse and related crimes, including corruption, violent crime and pervasive violence against women and children, which threatened the economic development, security and stability of the region.
3. Uneven economic development and high levels of social inequality among and within countries fuelled organized crime in the region. Transnational organized groups were taking advantage of the ease of cross border movement, the diversity of legislation among countries and insufficient information-sharing and cooperation among law enforcement agencies in the region. Trafficking in persons, especially women and children, was growing, and clear and comprehensive legislation was required to prevent and combat the phenomenon. The rising drug problem threatened the
future of young people, who were often affected by drug-related crime and drug abuse.
4. The region's response to organized crime was still inadequate, mostly owing to the need for better information- and intelligence-sharing platforms. The criminal justice systems of many jurisdictions were still weak, and most countries were not yet adequately equipped in terms of crime prevention and legislation to deal with transnational crimes such as terrorism, cybercrimes and financial crimes. The SADC countries were committed to continuing to take measures to improve investment in crime prevention in order to reverse the growing trend of crime in the region. The future of crime prevention depended on both global and regional cooperation. SADC member States recognized the critical role played by regional mechanisms in combating transnational organized crime and the pivotal role of the United Nations in initiatives targeted at addressing crime.
5. Effectively addressing the drug problem required a multi-dimensional approach that encompassed criminal, social and health policies. The drug policies of SADC member States were guided by the Protocol on Combating Illicit Drug Trafficking in the SADC Region. Member States had developed, implemented and evaluated strategies for establishing comprehensive and integrated demand-reduction programmes and developed community prevention, public school education and research activities to address the underlying causes of drug abuse. Some member States had also established appropriate facilities for the treatment, rehabilitation and social integration of drug-dependent persons. Recognizing that youth were a large part of the solution to substance abuse and organized crime, SADC would redouble its efforts to protect children and youth from drug abuse, violence and crime.
6. Mr. Joshi (India) said that a concerted and balanced response from the international community was needed to deal with the new challenges of transnational organized crime and the world drug problem. The implementation of relevant drug-related conventions must be strengthened, and the drug problem must be addressed on the basis of common and shared responsibility.
7. His Government had adopted a three-point initiative to curb the drug menace, involving the strengthening of health services to ensure better
2/14
15-17406
A/C.3/70/SR.6
rehabilitation of addicts, the promotion of greater awareness in schools and colleges against the use of narcotics and the stringent enforcement of measures against narcotics smuggling. Several steps were being undertaken to strengthen supply - and demandreduction activities and improve treatment and after care facilities, and his Government had established a monitoring committee to bring new psychoactive substances and synthetic drugs under control.
8. As an international supplier of opiate raw materials and a cultivator of licit opium, India had endeavoured to align its policies, legislation and regulations with the principles laid out in relevant United Nations conventions, including the principle of balance. It sought to control precursor chemicals used for synthetic drugs in a manner that limited diversion and abuse but did not affect their legitimate uses.
9. As a party to the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and its protocols and the United Nations Convention against Corruption, a signatory to various conventions against money-laundering and the financing of terrorism and a member of the Financial Action Task Force, India was demonstrating its resolve to contribute constructively and actively in that regard.
10. Terrorism, especially State-sponsored crossborder terrorism, was of particular concern to his Government. The international community must have a policy of zero tolerance towards terrorism and those who aided and abetted terrorist acts and provided safe havens to their perpetrators. India continued to strengthen its domestic mechanisms and cooperation with other countries to combat terrorism. The international community must demonstrate the necessary political will to conclude the Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism in order to strengthen the normative framework against terrorism. Increasing threats of cybercrime called for national capacity-building, technical assistance, global cooperation and a global response.
11. Effective and strengthened crime prevention and criminal justice institutions were the cornerstone for establishing the rule of law and were essential for peace, progress, the prosperity of nations and the successful implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
12. Mr. de Aguiar Patriota (Brazil) said that preventive policies, especially those that promoted
social and economic development, respect for human rights and access to justice, should be central elements of strategies for crime control. Public policies aimed at eradicating poverty, improving education and health, empowering women and combating all forms of discrimination were essential for crime prevention, and in order to be effective, they must be elaborated and implemented with the participation of civil society.
13. Brazil welcomed the adoption of the revised Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners and was pleased that they took into account advances in correctional science and the need to protect the human rights of incarcerated people.
14. No crime warranted the application of the death penalty; the death penalty was not an appropriate instrument for public security policies, since there was no empirical evidence establishing a causal link between that penalty and effective crime control. Brazil strongly urged all countries that still enforced the death penalty to adopt an immediate moratorium with a view to its abolition.
15. It was gratifying that, particularly since the adoption of the 2009 Political Declaration and Plan of Action, the international community had moved from a repressive perspective towards a more comprehensive and balanced approach to the drug problem, based on the principle of common and shared responsibility. One of the key points of the outcome of the special session of the General Assembly on the world drug problem to be held in April 2016 must be the improvement of drug use prevention policies through the development of cross-cutting, multidisciplinary and integrated programmes, formulated on the basis of scientific evidence and from the perspective of the most vulnerable groups, without stigmatizing people who used drugs. There must also be a balance between investments in supply- and demand-reduction policies. The final document should contain provisions on the adoption of alternatives to incarceration for minor drug-related offences, the definition of quantity thresholds to differentiate between drug users and drug traffickers, so as to avoid the conviction of users as traffickers, and the abolition of the death penalty for drug-related crimes. Civil society had an important role to play in that debate, at both the multilateral and the local levels.
16. Mr. Dehghani (Islamic Republic of Iran) said that his country, as an immediate neighbour to the
15-17406
3/14
A/C.3/70/SR.6
world's largest illicit opium production hub, Afghanistan, was facing several drug-related challenges. Almost 4,000 law enforcement officers had been killed and more than 12,000 had been permanently disabled while fighting against armed narcotic smugglers. Iran had invested $700 million into its eastern border control scheme. As a result of its drug control policies, Iran made almost 90 per cent of narcotic seizures around the world. It had expanded treatment and rehabilitation services and continued to provide patients with insurance for their treatment through a community-based approach. It would shortly begin implementation of the fourth five -year joint programme with the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC).
17. While poppy cultivation in Afghanistan was increasing at an alarming rate, the international community was still failing to uphold the principle of common and shared responsibility to contain the world drug problem. The international community should meet its obligation to support alternative livelihoods in Afghanistan and provide technical and financial assistance to countries on the front line of confronting armed drug smugglers. The level of such support had so far been minimal.
18. During the special session of the General Assembly on the world drug problem, it was incumbent on Member States not to politicize the drug problem or link it to irrelevant issues. Iran expected a clear outcome that addressed the implementation of the principle of common and shared responsibility and matters related to new psychoactive substances.
19. Over the past several years, terrorist and criminal groups had been increasingly banding together with a view to using the proceeds of their activities to expand their criminal and terrorist activities in the region and beyond. That situation called for more resolute action on the part of the entire international community.
20. Mr. Diyar Khan (Pakistan) said the steady rise in poppy cultivation in neighbouring countries, in particular Afghanistan, presented a direct challenge to transit countries in the region, including his country. In view of the close correlation between drug production, instability and lack of alternative economic opportunities, Pakistan believed that it was vital to re-establish government control over the territory used for drug cultivation and to promote development in order to eradicate poverty.
21. Legalization of illicit drugs was counterproductive. States must not resort to expedient policies, even when unlawful actions became difficult to control. In dealing with the world drug problem, issues in the entire chain of the drug market, as well as interrelated criminal activities such as money laundering, smuggling of weapons and human trafficking, must be addressed.
22. Pakistan had remained a poppy-free country for over a decade, but as a transit State, it continued to encounter the problems of smuggling and drug abuse. The increase in seizures in Pakistan over the past few years had been a direct result of law enforcement action, and did not indicate the emergence of new routes or an increase in trafficking over existing routes. Although Pakistan had the political will, trained personnel and an effective strategy to deal with the drug problem, it lacked the latest equipment and forensic laboratories and faced budgetary constraints, and thus relied on enhanced cooperation with UNODC and other partners.
23. Archbishop Auza (Observer for the Holy See) said that the Holy See firmly rejected the use of illegal drugs. It strongly emphasized the importance of the family as the cornerstone of prevention, treatment, rehabilitation, reintegration and health strategies. Illicit drug abuse destroyed the social fabric of individual families, metastasized to the community and led ultimately to the destabilization of civil society. Research continually reinforced that the core principles of social interaction were learned in the home, and children who had nurturing family environments received the education necessary to help them say no to illicit drugs. Even with strong family ties, some individuals sadly did fall prey to the use and abuse of drugs and they too needed the support and care of their families and the whole community.
24. Drug prevention and control and the treatment and care of addicts were a grave responsibility of those in public authority. Appropriate laws and their effective enforcement were crucial in protecting society and individuals from the danger of drug trafficking. An effective prevention programme could only be multipronged and the result of the joint efforts of all - families, public authorities, law enforcers, schoolteachers, informal youth groups and counselling professionals.
4/14
15-17406
A/C.3/70/SR.6
25. The Holy See was deeply concerned about trafficking in persons, and in that regard, concurred with the call in the report of the Secretary General on improving the coordination of efforts against trafficking in persons (A/70/94) for increased prevention efforts, addressing the various factors that made people vulnerable to trafficking. The Holy See supported all initiatives towards achieving a more effective, fair, humane and accountable criminal justice system to combat drug trafficking and all closely related crimes, in particular trafficking in persons.
26. Ms. Carias (Honduras) said that as a transit country between drug producers and drug consumers, Honduras had suffered enormous human losses and incalculable setbacks in achieving sustainable development. In recent years her country had managed to strengthen its institutions in its head-on fight against drug trafficking and transnational organized crime through an integral strategy which had resulted in advances in crime prevention. It was seeking to reach new global agreements that favoured innovative and alternative approaches, as well as to provide citizens with the space and empowerment needed to enable them to contribute to the building of more healthy and prosperous societies. Such efforts required continued international cooperation and the adoption of common policies based on the principle of differentiated responsibilities.
27. There had been significant improvements in combating drug trafficking and insecurity in Honduras, including a notable reduction in the rate of homicides and related crimes, destruction of the infrastructure of drug paths and drug laboratories, the arrest and sentencing of drug traffickers, and the extradition of drug barons and seizure of their ill-gotten wealth. However, Honduras was fighting an unequal battle because drug traffickers had the logistical, financial and material resources of a transnational organization, which was rather difficult for a country with limited resources to overcome, especially when a strategy at the continental and multinational level had yet to be consolidated.
28. In 2011, the States members of the Central American Integration System had launched the Central American Security Strategy comprising an array of projects covering a number of strategic aspects, including combating crime, preventing violence, enhancing prison security and strengthening institutions. Delegations from Latin American and
Caribbean countries were currently meeting at San Pedro Sula, Honduras, at the 25th meeting of the heads of national drug control bodies, under the auspices of UNODC.
29. The tragic situation of migration flows, including unaccompanied minors, from the northern triangle of Central America to the United States of America, which was largely associated with violence resulting from drug trafficking and international organized crime in the region, had led the Governments of El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras to develop the Plan of the Alliance for Prosperity in the Northern Triangle aimed at improving security and creating opportunities and development for their populations.
30. Ms. Guzman Madera (Dominican Republic) said that the complex nature of the problem of international drug trafficking called for solutions that responded to the different realities of the countries it affected. The geographical location of her country made it a strategic transfer point for international drug shipments. The practice of paying for transportation services with drugs had also increased the supply of illegal drugs, and hence the associated social problems, at the local level. In recent years drug seizures had increased, demonstrating her Government's political will to implement concrete and strategic plans to combat drug trafficking.
31. Systemic approaches that linked the legal, justice, health and education systems and effective, evidence based strategies were required to reduce illicit drug use once and for all. The Dominican Republic was launching a broad prevention campaign to raise awareness of the negative impact of drugs. Drug consumption was viewed as a public health issue, not a crime. The challenge lay in providing treatment to users, while respecting their human rights, without ignoring the connection between addiction, crime and violence. Particular efforts were b eing made to strengthen the country's justice system root out corruption and ensure that the war on drugs was waged with full respect for human rights.
32. Ms. Goldrick (Nicaragua) said that important successes had been recorded by Nicaragua through its national security policy. The country's crime prevention and criminal justice agencies formed part of a system that was based on citizen participation. Government policy aimed to build a State that promoted Christian values, human rights, socialist
15-17406
5/14
A/C.3/70/SR.6
ideals and solidarity. Instead of pursuing a violent military strategy to prevent crime and guarantee justice, the President of Nicaragua had opted for a preventive, proactive and community -based model, which was implemented by communal assemblies in coordination with the police, the army, lawyers and judges. The objective was to forge ties between institutions and citizens, while awarding a leading role to the family and the community in crime prevention, thereby contributing to the sustainable development of the entire community.
33. Nicaragua was proud of its civic security system, which served as a retaining wall against drug trafficking and organized crime. It was one of the safest countries in Latin America. The emphasis on values, the family, the community, faith and religion, together with dedicated institutions, promoted harmony and understanding and mitigated the impact of crime. Nicaragua was also proud that, marking the country's achievements in the fight against trafficking in persons, it would be joining the UNODC Blue Heart Campaign against Human Trafficking in November 2015.
34. Her Government was concerned about new types of crimes, such as cybercrime, and crimes associated with the illegal trade in cultural goods and the destruction of flora and fauna, which were being committed with impunity. It hoped that consideration would be given to a legally binding instrument that would define such crimes.
35. Mr. Wu Haiwen (China) said that Member States should remain steadfast in the fight against corruption. His Government hoped that countries would strengthen cooperation within the framework of the United Nations Convention against Corruption in apprehending fugitives and recovering ill-gotten assets.. The review mechanism had been functioning smoothly; China supported starting the second review cycle as scheduled and believed that the terms of reference and basic principles of the review mechanism should be maintained and applied.
36. The United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and the Protocols Thereto must be fully implemented; an appropriate implementation review mechanism was needed, and the model, principles and experience of the review mechanism of the United Nations Convention against Corruption should be taken as a reference, and adopted where appropriate. While China had taken note of a
possible role of civil society in the implementation of the Convention, it believed that the implementation review mechanism should be an intergovernmental mechanism and the Governments of States parties should play the primary role. At the current stage, the participation of civil society should not be linked to the establishment of the review mechanism.
37. The challenges posed by recently emerged crimes must be addressed swiftly and effectively. Transnational cybercrime and cyberterrorism were spreading. China had worked hard to promote discussion of the issue of cybercrime by the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice and had donated funds for the work of the Open-ended intergovernmental expert group to conduct a comprehensive study of the problem of cybercrime . It supported an early formulation, on the basis of the work of the expert group and within the framework of the United Nations, of an international legal instrument to lay the foundation for international cooperation against cybercrime.
38. International cooperation in tackling drugs should also be strengthened. The potential of the existing international drug control system should be fully tapped, and a comprehensive, integrated and balanced strategy should be adopted to combat the global problem. The principle of shared responsibilities must be applied and developing countries should be given support for building their drug control capacities through financial assistance, technical cooperation and information-sharing. China was executing Operation Fox Hunt and Operation Sky Net, aimed at bringing to justice criminals who committed serious corruption crimes; so far it had apprehended hundreds of fugitives and recovered hundreds of millions of renminbi in assets. It called on the relevant countries to cooperate with it in that regard. It had participated in drug control cooperation within the framework of UNODC, the Shanghai Cooperation Organization and the Greater Mekong subregion. It actively engaged in bilateral cooperation in investigation, information exchange and law enforcement and trained drug control agents for neighbouring countries and implemented over 200 alternative development projects in relevant countries.
39. Ms. Gebrekidan (Eritrea) said that, since gaining independence, her country had kept the building of an effective criminal justice system at the centre of it nation-building agenda. The community court system
6/14
15-17406
A/C.3/70/SR.6
had been expanded to improve peoples' access to justice, and new penal and civil codes and related procedures had been put in place on the basis of extensive studies of customary law, while also taking into account Eritrea's international commitments. Ongoing work to improve the prison system included not only correctional facilities but also rehabilitation facilities and formal and vocational training for inmates. Eritrea was currently seeking technical assistance to incorporate the Revised Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners.
40. As one of the countries affected by human trafficking and smuggling, Eritrea had established legal, institutional and administrative frameworks to prevent its nationals from falling into the traps of criminal networks. Given the transboundary nature of organized crime, it had forged a common front with transit and destination countries as well as regional and international bodies to tackle irregular migration, human trafficking and human smuggling. It was actively involved in African Union efforts to combat human trafficking in the Horn of Africa, and in the Khartoum Process. It was also intensifying public awareness campaigns about the dangers of those crimes through mass media and community -based meetings while implementing economic and political projects to create opportunities for youth to stay in the country.
41. Her Government had also been working with the countries of destination in Europe with a view to ending the automatic granting of asylum status to Eritrean nationals, which encouraged many Eritreans to risk their lives in an attempt to reach those countries. In that regard her Government welcomed the factfinding missions to Eritrea undertaken by some European countries, which had allowed them to make objective assessments of the situation on the ground and resulted in readjustment of their approaches to the issue. Eritrea reiterated its call to other countries to take similar action, which would help address the problems of human trafficking and smuggling and curb the humanitarian crisis in the Mediterranean Sea.
42. Ms. Sabja (Plurinational State of Bolivia) said that Bolivia had recorded a number of successes in its fight against drug trafficking, which it conducted with total financial and political autonomy. Police action no longer focused only on the coca-farming region, but extended throughout the national territory, and cooperation with neighbouring countries had increased.
Drug seizures and drug-related arrests were considerably higher than they had been when the United States Drug Enforcement Administration operated in the country, both having tripled in the past eight years. In addition, the amount of land devoted to coca growing had been reduced for four consecutive years and was now at its lowest level ever, according to UNODC. That reduction had been achieved with full respect for human rights and the environment and without any bloodshed, thanks to a consultative approach, the involvement of coca farmers, the delimitation of legal coca growing areas and non-use of aerial fumigation or chemicals. Despite those tangible results, and the recognition by the international community of the country's efforts to reduce illegal coca plantations and combat drug trafficking, in 2015 the United States Government had criticized those efforts, for purely political reasons unrelated to the issue.
43. Her Government remained committed to combating illegal drug trafficking, organized crime and corruption. Multilateral and bilateral cooperation that respected national sovereignty and human rights had an essential role to play, and Bolivia would do its utmost to apply the measures and reach the targets established in the Political Declaration and Plan of Action adopted at the twentieth special session of the General Assembly. At the national level, her Government was implementing a multifaceted five -year plan for 20132017 to reduce internal demand for illicit drugs.
44. Mr. Zamora Rivas (El Salvador) said that the new challenges posed by the world drug problem called for integrated action incorporating a public health approach within the framework of the three United Nations conventions on the subject and with full respect for human rights. As a transit country for drug shipments between South and North America, El Salvador was convinced that action must be based on the principle of shared and differentiated responsibilities. International cooperation and technical and financial assistance must be adequate, coherent and effectively coordinated. Protecting children and youth from the various aspects of illegal drug use must be a priority. Drug abuse was a social and public-health issue that called for a multidisciplinary and multisectoral approach that went beyond addressing the criminal aspect of the problem. Alternative measures to imprisonment for certain drug-related crimes should be broadly pursued, given the problems
15-17406
7/14
A/C.3/70/SR.6
of overcrowding and expense and, above all, the difficulty that ex-convicts had reintegrating into society and the labour market. El Salvador totally opposed the application of the death penalty for drugrelated offences.
45. In a worrying development in El Salvador, organized crime had acquired new dimensions, linking the drug problem with the pandillas (criminal gangs), which gave rise to serious security problems. In addition to policies to reduce the supply and demand for illicit drugs, efforts to combat illicit trafficking in chemical substances and products and related crimes such as money laundering, arms trafficking and human trafficking should be carried out on the basis of scientific evidence. Seizure of the funds and assets of organized criminal groups should be continued, as it was proving particularly effective in the fight against drugs.
46. Mr. Elbahi (Sudan) called on the international community to define terrorism as an international crime and to coordinate its efforts in such a way that developing countries, including those in post-conflict situations, could more easily combat drug trafficking and terrorism. In accordance with its regional and international commitments, Sudan had enacted legislation and established dedicated authorities to combat transnational organized crime, money laundering and human trafficking. It accorded particular attention to the situation of children in conflict with the law, who were brought before specialized courts. Prosecutors and judges received training on how to deal with minors and child protection units had been established in the police and armed forces. A unit to combat violence against women had also been established by the Ministry of Welfare and Social Security and every effort was being made to eradicate gender-based discrimination in the criminal justice system.
47. His Government had enacted legislation to combat human trafficking, particularly the trafficking of women and children, and had signed a number of agreements to that end with neighbouring countries. Sudan had hosted an international conference on combating trafficking in the Horn of Africa in 2014 and called on the United Nations and the international community to assist the States of the region in their efforts to implement the Khartoum Declaration on Combating Terrorism and Transnational Organized Crime. Sudan had, moreover, signed border control
agreements with neighbouring States with a view to enhancing its efforts to combat arms trafficking and terrorism. Several Government agencies were working to combat drug abuse and trafficking and provide assistance to victims. Particular efforts had been made to raise awareness among students of the dangers of illicit drugs. Sudan was deploying every effort to combat transnational organized crime, drugs and terrorism but emphasized that developing countries would continue to require technical and financial assistance from the international community, not only to combat those scourges, but also to address their causes, which included entrenched poverty, crippling debt and the imposition of unilateral economic sanctions, which must be immediately lifted.
48. Mr. Mahmadaminov (Tajikistan) said that preventing illicit drug trafficking, which had become a breeding ground for terrorism and organized crime, required joint and coordinated action by the entire international community to reduce demand and supply and integrate national and regional efforts in an international drug control strategy. That challenge called for the establishment of a global multilevel system of international cooperation, with the United Nations as the coordinating centre.
49. Tajikistan's anti-drug strategy included short- and long-term action programmes, as well as bilateral and multilateral collaboration and cooperation, including cooperation with neighbouring States. The Drug Control Agency, created with the active support of UNODC and donor countries, had been successfully operating in the country for over 15 years. The special session of the General Assembly on the world drug problem represented a unique opportunity to find new ways to strengthen cooperation and tackle the roots of the drug problem and its consequences. Tajikistan would be seeking support for the initiative of the President of Tajikistan to declare 2016-2020 a fiveyear period for global measures on preventing drug abuse and promoting healthy lifestyles.
50. Mr. Thammavongsa (Lao People's Democratic Republic) said that no country was immune from the threat posed by the illicit drugs trade in a globalized and interconnected world. Concerted efforts were therefore needed at the local, national, regional and international levels to deal with that scourge, which undermined societies and hindered socioeconomic development.
8/14
15-17406
A/C.3/70/SR.6
51. His Government was making every effort to combat illicit drug trafficking and meted out harsh punishment to drug traffickers. The Lao National Commission for Drug Control and Supervision coordinated and monitored efforts to address the challenge posed by illegal drugs, while the National Drug Control Master Plan provided a policy framework for drug control and prevention in support of drug control objectives, including trend analysis and risk assessment, alternative development and poverty reduction, drug demand reduction and HIV/AIDS prevention, civic awareness and community mobilization, law enforcement, criminal justice and the rule of law, and institutional capacity -building. Furthermore, in 2014, the National Assembly had strengthened the country's legislation on drug-related crimes.
52. The Lao People's Democratic Republic was committed to working with its regional and global partners, including, in particular, member States of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, to combat illicit drugs and, inter alia, had established liaison offices at border crossings with neighbouring countries to that end. It was implementing existing bilateral and multilateral agreements on drug control cooperation and the exchange of information and intelligence. As a result of the country's ongoing efforts, significant quantities of illegal drugs had been seized and thousands of drug traffickers brought to justice. The Somsanga Treatment and Rehabilitation Center provided drug detoxification, rehabilitation and vocational training services, and, since its establishment in 1996, had treated more than 25,000 drug addicts.
53. Mr. Sabarullah Khan (Sri Lanka) said that his Government was working very closely with UNODC and other United Nations entities, as well as with civil society, in combating the drug problem, which, in its territory, was largely one of trafficking, not production, as Sri Lanka was used as a transhipment destination by international drug traffickers. Heroin consumption had also become a major problem, as well as abuse of other psychotropic substances. The legal framework for handling drug-related offences was robust and gave effect to Sri Lanka's treaty obligations under international and regional conventions; the legislation included provisions for extradition and mutual legal assistance. Through the National Dangerous Drugs Control Board, and other government and non-
governmental organizations, Sri Lanka had established residential care, treatment and rehabilitation services for persons who were drug dependent, which included individual and family counselling, detoxification, psychotherapy, education and vocational training. An exclusive treatment programme had been started for persons imprisoned for drug-related offences. Efforts were also being made to ensure that Sri Lanka remained a low HIV-prevalence country. Increased diligence in taking action regarding drug-related issues and increased awareness of the harm associated with drug use were encouraging, but did not diminish the scale of the problem.
54. Given the international dimension of the drug problem and its inextricable linkage with international terrorist and criminal networks, no State could combat it alone. Sri Lanka was committed to cooperating in all relevant international and regional mechanisms, particularly the UNODC-led maritime drug trafficking control mechanism operating in the Indian Ocean, and would continue to extend its fullest cooperation to all United Nations entities and civil society in addressing the problem.
55. Mr. Ciss (Senegal) said that in order to successfully combat drug trafficking and transnational organized crime, every effort must be made to bolster subregional, regional and international cooperation among States. In preparation for the special session of the General Assembly on the world drug problem, fully inclusive and participatory consultations between all relevant stakeholders were needed. UNODC should continue to support States, at their request, in strengthening their data analysis mechanisms, information exchange systems, training of health care personnel, data collection and analysis, capacity building and reform of the security and justice sectors.
56. West Africa, with its porous borders, poverty and political instability, was a particularly vulnerable region, which had become a hub for international drug trafficking. With the adoption of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Political Declaration on the Prevention of Drug Abuse, Illicit Drug Trafficking and Organized Crime in West Africa and the Regional Action Plan in 2008, West African States had established a cooperation mechanism in order to tackle illicit trafficking. For Senegal, which lay at the intersection of the Sahel and the Atlantic, combating drug trafficking and related crimes was a national priority; it had therefore
15-17406
9/14
A/C.3/70/SR.6
strengthened its legislation to combat illegal drugs and had established and enhanced the role of relevant institutions. With the support of UNODC and the World Health Organization, it had also improved its national system for treating drug addiction and, in December 2014, it had established an integrated addiction treatment centre in Dakar.
57. Mr. Waheed (Maldives) said that said that the Maldives, an archipelago which lay at the centre of one of the world's premier maritime trade routes, was very exposed to transnational organized crime and the international drug trade and was at risk of becoming a transit State for transnational criminal activity. Given its heavy reliance on migrant workers, it was also vulnerable to the perils of human trafficking and smuggling. His Government was a party to the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and had also completed the necessary legal steps for its accession to the Optional Protocol to prevent, suppress and punish trafficking in persons, especially women and children. It had adopted legislation to combat trafficking in 2013 and was now implementing the country's 2015-2019 national action plan to combat trafficking in persons.
58. The increasing use and abuse of drugs in the Maldives, particularly among Maldivian youth, who constituted 46 per cent of the population, had been an issue of growing concern over the past decade. The Maldives had worked with international stakeholders to introduce and enforce specialized legislation on drugs and gang violence; a dedicated drug court had been established and there had been a paradigm shift towards viewing drug offenders as victims in need of rehabilitation and reintegration into society rather than mere criminals. However, the geography of the country and limited financial resources meant that achieving that objective was posing significant challenges.
59. In terms of prevention and monitoring, surveillance had been tightened across the Maldives to eliminate the smuggling and distribution of drugs, and canine units operated at the country's airports. Above all, his Government sought to address the issue of crime prevention and drug abuse through a holistic approach, with a special focus on youth development, and it prioritized education, skills development and job creation for young people. With the support of the United Nations Development Programme, it had facilitated entrepreneurship opportunities for Maldivian youth; it was also promoting the sports
sector and was planning to build a youth city including an information technology hub on reclaimed land near the capital. It had enacted a Gang Violence Act and moved rapidly to correct the infringement of human rights resulting from gang activities.
60. Mr. Sarki (Nigeria) said that strategic international cooperation and an integrated, multi dimensional, balanced and comprehensive approach were needed in the fight against the global illicit drug problem; no single methodology could proffer solutions. In Africa, the consequences of drug abuse continued to ravage families, communities and societies and undermine efforts to promote sustainable development, while increasing the prevalence of psychological disorders and diseases such as HIV/AIDS,. Drug users tended to die prematurely and were at high risk of becoming the victims of violent crimes. Furthermore, African countries were increasingly being used as transit countries for illicit drugs and psychotropic substances, exacerbating organized crime and other security challenges.
61. Nigeria welcomed the adoption of the African Union Plan of Action on Drug Control (2013 -2017) and the growing collaboration among ECOWAS member States in combating illicit drug trafficking and organized crime, including the workshop on countering drug trafficking held in July 2015, at which participants had called for enhanced collaboration among regional law enforcement authorities and mobilized the support of relevant civil society organizations in the implementation of the ECOWAS action plan on drug trafficking for 2016-2020.
62. Nigeria, in partnership with UNODC and the European Union, had made significant progress in combating drug-related criminal activity. In that regard, the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency had launched the National Drug Control Master Plan for 2015-2019, which focused on coordination, law enforcement, drug demand reduction, access and control of narcotics and psychotropic substances for medical and scientific purposes, and coordination, and provided an integrated and comprehensive solution to a range of drug-related issues, in line with international drug control conventions.
63. Ms. Cantada (Philippines) said that her country had adopted a five-pillar approach to the issue of illegal drugs, whereby it sought to reduce the supply of, and demand for, illegal drugs, create alternative
10/14
15-17406
A/C.3/70/SR.6
income-generating opportunities, promote awareness among and responses from civil society and strengthen regional and international cooperation. The Philippines had adopted a national anti-drug programme of action for 2015 to 2020 with a view to addressing both drug supply and drug demand issues; it was also seeking to strengthen its international partnerships, especially with international drugs and narcotics boards, civil society and international organizations, and was strengthening its cross-border cooperation. It was aware, however, that increasing human mobility, new drug formulations that were difficult to detect and the Internet-based drug trade all posed particular challenges for States, and that illicit trafficking in drugs, firearms, human organs and wildlife, transnational organized crime, cybercrime, corruption, money laundering, piracy and terrorism were increasingly interlinked in what had become a globalized world. A comprehensive approach that would effectively coordinate national and international efforts was clearly needed.
64. At the national level, in order to enhance the transparency of financial transactions, the Philippines had strengthened its anti-money-laundering law and had adopted or amended legislation to combat a range of crimes, including money-laundering, trafficking in persons, bribery, extortion and the financing of terrorism and cybercrime, including identity theft. Consistent with the principles of restorative justice, the amended juvenile justice and welfare act provided for children aged 15 or younger who were in conflict with the law to be released to the custody of their parents or guardians and benefit from community-based intervention programmes. The Philippines urged States to ensure that their national laws were in line with international legal instruments, and welcomed the ongoing support provided to States by UNODC to help them achieve that objective.
65. Mr. Boamar (Oman) said that peace, justice and the rule of law were key prerequisites for sustainable development and human progress. Oman therefore accorded priority consideration to ways in which it could combat crime. Transnational organized crime had become a significant challenge for all countries in the modern, globalized world, and could negatively affect economic growth and the quality of life.
66. Oman had ratified a number of regional and international instruments on combating crime and was working with regional and international bodies,
including UNODC and INTERPOL, to enhance the effectiveness of its national law enforcement and criminal justice institutions. Oman commended the outcomes agreed to at the Thirteenth United Nations Congress on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice and stood ready to work with all members of the international community to ensure that the citizens of all States enjoyed secure and peaceful lives.
67. Mr. Fachir (Indonesia) underscored the importance of a comprehensive and coordinated approach to crime prevention and criminal justice, as well as partnerships with international organizations and civil society in combating transnational crimes. Continued collective efforts were needed to promote universal ratification of the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime. His Government accorded priority to addressing labour trafficking in cooperation with other stakeholders at the regional and global levels in order to establish preventive measures, provide protection and care for the victims, prosecute offenders and strengthen partnerships. Bilateral cooperation, including facilitating extradition and protecting victims, was also important. Indonesia had initiated the Bali Regional Ministerial Conference on People Smuggling, Trafficking in Persons and Related Transnational Crime (the Bali Process), which was currently the only regional consultative process that involved countries of origin, transit and destination. Within ASEAN, Indonesia was actively engaged in developing regional frameworks on the issue of trafficking in persons, including labour trafficking.
68. His Government underlined the importance of enhanced international cooperation, including through voluntary disclosure and direct asset recovery mechanisms, to prevent and combat corruption. It was implementing a national plan of action on preventing and combating corruption, and was continuing to strengthen its institutional structures and law enforcement agencies.
69. The global response to terrorism at all levels must be consistent with the rule of law and respect human rights. His Government reiterated the importance of fully implementing the United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy, with particular emphasis on addressing the conditions that fostered the spread of terrorism. The soft power approach, which included promoting moderation and tolerance, was essential to de-radicalization and counter-terrorism
15-17406
11/14
A/C.3/70/SR.6
efforts. Above all, promoting inclusive development was instrumental in addressing the root causes of terrorism.
70. The regular collection and dissemination of data was important in order to formulate effective policies and responses to new and emerging forms of crime and facilitate coordinated action by Member States. UNODC and Member States should promote technical assistance, capacity building and other relevant measures to assist countries in maintaining accurate, reliable and comparable data. Indonesia was confronting the crime of illegal fishing, which was an impediment to the sustainable management of fisheries and impacted global fish stocks and endangered species; it was often related to other crimes, such as people smuggling, human trafficking and forced labour, and should therefore be treated in the same context as transnational organized crime.
71. His Government strongly believed that the most effective way to address the drug problem was to view it as a common and shared responsibility requiring a stronger and more coordinated international response. An integrated, multidisciplinary, mutually reinforcing and balanced approach was needed to supply and demand reduction strategies.
72. Mr. Them (Myanmar) said that illicit drugs represented a menace that thrived at the cost of younger generations and the future of societies and needed be resolved through global efforts. Sustainable solutions and a multi-sectoral and inclusive approach were imperative to ensuring a future free of illicit drugs. The fight against illicit drugs and psychotropic substances had always been a high priority in Myanmar, but the problem continued to plague the country. Strategies to eradicate poppy cultivation focused on development and increased standards of living for people residing in border regions. Efforts were being made to reduce the supply and demand of drugs and to enhance various law enforcement measures.
73. The Drug Elimination Plan had been extended to 2019 in an effort to prevent a rebound in opium cultivation and to address the use of stimulant tablets and new psychotropic substances. Opium cultivation had declined due to the implementation of development projects that provided poppy farmers with alternative sources of income and improved infrastructure, education and health in rural areas.
However, those projects were facing challenges, as local farmers encountered geographical barriers barring access to markets and then turned to lucrative poppy plantations. Action plans for addressing those issues were already in place.
74. Myanmar had enacted a law on trafficking in persons in 2005 and had continued to combat the problems of human trafficking in the country and in the region through appropriate legal frameworks and in cooperation with all stakeholders. Under its 2014 -2017 country programme with UNODC, Myanmar had initiated projects concerning transnational organized crime and illicit trafficking, anticorruption, the criminal justice system, drugs and health, and rehabilitation and sustainable development. In addition, it cooperated with other countries in the region, especially neighbouring States, through memorandums of understanding and bilateral agreements, which included a letter of agreement signed in 2014 on ASEAN -Korean cooperation in combating drug crime, a letter of agreement signed with the United States of America on drug control and law enforcement, a memorandum of understanding to participate as a member of Asia-Pacific Information Coordination Center for combating Drug Crimes and a bilateral programme with the Russian Federation for drug control cooperation. Myanmar was proud to be part of the commitment made in 2012 to create a drug free ASEAN community. Through strong regional and international cooperation and with enhanced technical and financial assistance from various partners, his Government was convinced that the global menace would come to an end.
75. Mr. Ibrahim (Malaysia) said that his Government believed that the spread of conflicts, violent extremism and religious misconceptions contributed to acts of terrorism and to transnational crime, which needed to be addressed at the global level as it had detrimental effects on political, economic and social development.
76. People smuggling and trafficking in persons had increased since early 2015, not only in connection with the migrant crisis in Europe, but also in South East Asia, which had witnessed an irregular movement of people in the Andaman Sea and Bay of Bengal, during which thousands of people had lost their lives. Any analysis of those issues must identify the steps required to address the root causes that drove people to flee their countries of origin, which included the spread of
12/14
15-17406
A/C.3/70/SR.6
conflicts, absence of order, persecution of minorities, violations of fundamental rights and religious intolerance. Every effort must be taken to improve and strengthen multilateral cooperation at the regional and global levels. ASEAN had recently agreed on several measures to address the crisis of the irregular movement of people through the Kuala Lumpur Declaration on Irregular Movement of Persons in South-East Asia.
77. Drug trafficking was a threat to countries' social and economic structures and was particularly challenging in South-East Asia owing to its proximity to the world's main opium-producing region. Measures to control drug trafficking were best carried out through concerted international efforts, including bilateral and regional arrangements, which should include technical assistance and capacity-building programmes to provide alternative sources of income in drug-producing areas or countries. In Malaysia, the three major drug-related problems were smuggling for local consumption, drug abuse by the population and the transit of drugs through the country. His Government was pleased that the issue of strengthening the prevention and treatment of substance abuse, including narcotic drug abuse, had been included in the 2030 Agenda.
78. Ms. Mballa Eyenga (Cameroon) said that transnational organized crime, corruption, money laundering and terrorism, maritime piracy, cybercrime, human trafficking, and drugs represented a global threat to security, stability, and the rule of law, as well as socioeconomic development. The effects of those activities jeopardized States' efforts to maintain peace and public security, uphold good governance and provide social services. Cameroon was affected by many of those scourges, in particular, the everincreasing production, trafficking and consumption of drugs, whose primary victims were young people.
79. Cameroon had worked to find sustainable solutions in cooperation with neighbouring countries and with UNODC and the African Union. It was implementing strategies to increase awareness and community engagement in the prevention of drug addiction. Awareness-raising and capacity-building workshops were organized for community leaders with participation from civil society, non-governmental organizations and the media. Advocacy materials were being created to increase awareness on the prevention and fight against drug addiction, and educational talks
were organized and films and documentaries shown to target young people. To address the problem of new drugs, a prevention centre had been established.
80. Cameroon was aware that drug use was not just a criminal issue but also a public health issue. The Minister of Public Health had signed a decree in 2015 to establish centres to prevent addiction and to provide care for people suffering from drug addiction. Coordination meetings were held between the various ministries and authorities involved in drug control, and mechanisms to detect drugs had been put in place in the two major international airports in Cameroon in order to improve control at the borders.
81. International cooperation to target problems caused by drugs was imperative. Success could be achieved only through concerted efforts and the exchange of good practices at the local, national, regional and international levels.
82. Mr. Mendoza-Garci'a (Costa Rica) said that drug trafficking and organized crime affected all countries in varying degrees and jeopardized international peace, security and stability. Despite efforts made by States and the international community, drug consumption had remained the same and the amount of new synthetic drugs had doubled in 2014. Strategies that involved seizing and destroying drugs and incarcerating small producers, intermediaries and consumers had proven unsuccessful in stopping the deadly advance of transnational organized crime and drug trafficking. It was necessary to develop new strategies that incorporated a comprehensive, multisectoral approach; respected the rule of law; prompted action at the national, regional and global levels and took into consideration the shared but differentiated responsibilities of all countries, especially the major consumer countries.
83. Destination countries must make a political commitment to reduce demand, set aside the resources necessary to destroy the economic mechanism maintaining the drug trade and create social and public health programmes that encompassed prevention, education, early detection and intervention, treatment, rehabilitation and reintegration into society of drug users. Costa Rica hoped that the plan of action stemming from the special session of the General Assembly on the world drug problem would have a strong focus on scientific evidence and the well-being
15-17406
13/14
A/C.3/70/SR.6
of individuals to ensure social inclusion, access to justice and healthcare and a gender -based approach.
84. Central America suffered from drug trafficking and transnational organized crime because of its geographical position between producer countries and the largest destination country. Resources that should be allocated to vital needs like education, health and sustainable infrastructure had to be diverted to combat violence and criminality, which would impede Central America's ability to meet the Sustainable Development Goals. Costa Rica needed much more help from the international community; it invested $40 in the fight against drugs for every dollar received. Despite limited resources, Costa Rica had developed a comprehensive strategy to implement surveillance measures to seize drugs, money and arms; dismantle criminal organizations; strengthen public institutions; prevent crime; develop programmes for inclusion and social development; promote youth opportunities; rehabilitate addicts and strengthen public security.
85. The illegal acquisition of conventional arms was closely linked to the violence caused by transnational organized crime; his Government therefore emphasized the importance of the Arms Trade Treaty in controlling the transit of conventional arms and urged Member States which had not yet done so to ratify that Treaty.
86. Ms. Garcia (Uruguay) said that her delegation encouraged comprehensive, open discussion encompassing all viewpoints and analysing all options in order to assess the real state of the complex drug problem. When the international response had not been comprehensive and well-balanced in the past, it had caused more damage. The Sixth Summit meeting of heads of State of the Americas in 2012 had turned away from the war against drugs model. It had been followed by the Brasilia Declaration of MERCOSUR, the Quito Declaration of the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States and the Montevideo Declaration of the Union of South American Nations. That dialogue had brought out the need to protect public health and well-being and ensure access to drugs for medical and scientific purposes; incorporate international human rights law in the international judicial framework governing drug control; guarantee the right to physical, mental and social health and promote treatment, rehabilitation and social reinsertion; ensure proportionality between damage caused and criminal penalties; bear in mind that the drug users filling jails were not criminals and had a
right to health; focus on organized crime and target those organizations responsible for trafficking in drugs, arms and people; and display no bias in fighting corruption and money-laundering. Uruguay emphatically condemned the death penalty, including for drug offenses.
87. Tobacco and alcohol use represented one of the biggest drug-related health issues and, in view of their high rates of morbidity and mortality, they needed to be included in drug policies. Five million people died from tobacco consumption every year, and alcohol consumption had similar statistics. Those substances could be regulated in accordance with the law without resulting to prohibition. Uruguay had taken the lead in drawing up the World Health Organization Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, which had demonstrated its efficiency.
88. Market regulation was a viable political strategy. Regulation of the illegal drug market through the application of criminal law had proven to be inefficient. It had led to violence, disproportionate punishment, violent eradication of crops and social suffering and had not impacted demand or drug use. Bearing in mind the many uses of cannabis, Uruguay had passed a law to allow the State to control and regulate the production and distribution of marijuana, through the issuance of special licenses. Cultivation occurred on State land with security controls and advertising was not allowed. A scientific advisory committee, made up of high-level academics, was evaluating and monitoring that model.
The meeting rose at 5.45 p.m.
14/14
15-17406