United Nations
A/c .3/70/SR.41
General Assembly
Seventieth session
Official Records
Distr.: General 8 December 2015
Original: English
Third Committee
Summary record of the 41st meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Wednesday, 4 November 2015, at 10 a.m.
Chair: Mr. Mohamed (Vice-Chair) (Guyana)
Contents
Agenda item 65: Report of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, questions relating to refugees, returnees and displaced persons and humanitarian questions (continued)
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Control Unit (srcorrections@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
15-19314 (E)
III II11 III WMWWWW
A/C.3/70/SR.41
In the absence of Mr. Hilale (Morocco), Mr Mohamed (Guyana), Vice-Chair, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 65: Report of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, questions relating to refugees, returnees and displaced persons and humanitarian questions (continued) (A/70/12, A/69/12/Add.1 and A/70/337)
1. Ms. Al-Thafiri (Kuwait) commended the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) for its provision of humanitarian assistance and emergency relief to refugees and displaced persons worldwide. Kuwait made an annual voluntary contribution of $1 million to that end, in addition to other assistance that it extended through Government and non-governmental institutions. As a result of the Syrian crisis, Syrian refugees were the largest group of persons of concern for UNHCR, with over 4 million refugees and 8 million internally displaced persons. Kuwait had hosted three international conferences to raise funds for humanitarian assistance for the Syrian people and had pledged over $1 billion, a large proportion of which had been allocated to funding UNHCR activities in host countries.
2. Kuwait welcomed the UNHCR-led Regional Refugee and Resilience Plan 2015 -2016, which aimed to support the national strategic plans of the countries hosting Syrian refugees in the areas of development and humanitarian assistance. Her Government had contributed $200 million to meet the humanitarian needs of Iraqis displaced and affected by the terrorist attacks of Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). It had also donated $100 million in humanitarian assistance to Yemen in the wake of the Houthi overthrow of that country's legitimate Government. Turning to Palestine refugees, her country had not forgotten their six decades of suffering at the hands of the obstinate occupying Power, in contravention of international humanitarian law and United Nations resolutions. The Government and people of Kuwait supported the Palestinian people's right to selfdetermination and an independent State with Jerusalem as its capital.
3. Ms. Smaila (Nigeria) said that the rise in the number of refugees, migrants, returnees, asylum seekers, stateless persons and internally displaced
persons was alarming. Persistent shortfalls in funding remained a major challenge in addressing the growing need for humanitarian relief. In that regard, she encouraged donors to increase their funding, which was vital to increasing the support of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) for refugees and internally displaced persons, and urged the United Nations system to continue assisting States in developing early warning and emergency response mechanisms for displaced populations. She commended the initiatives of the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women and UNHCR.
4. As part of its commitment towards refugees and internally displaced persons, in October 2015 the Government had launched the North-East Humanitarian Multi-Stakeholder Engagement, an intervention programme for victims of the Boko Haram insurgency in the region. Its stakeholders included the National Emergency Management Agency, the Presidential Initiative for the North-East, the Victim Support Fund, and the Safe Schools Initiative. That programme was intended to ensure efficient coordination between the federal Government and non-governmental intervention efforts for the north east and was a demonstration of Nigeria's commitment to investing in civil society organizations to improve the plight of internally displaced persons.
5. In October 2015 the Government had introduced the North-East Marshall Plan on short, intermediate and long-term interventions in economic reconstruction, development and emergency assistance at a projected total budgetary expenditure of approximately $412 million for the north-east region. The critical intermediate plan was intended for the over two million internally displaced persons, and long-term implementation of the programme would cost approximately $584 million in addressing non-returning internally displaced persons in the affected states of Borno, Yobe and Adamawa. The Government had also developed a strategic national communication plan to counter the ideology and teaching of Boko Haram and other such groups.
6. Nigeria thanked host countries for the critical role that they played in protecting refugees by keeping their borders open and providing asylum space. He encouraged all States that had not signed or ratified the Convention on the Safety of United Nations and Associated Personnel to do so. Enhanced coordination
2/13
15-19314
A/C.3/70/SR.41
among relevant humanitarian actors was essential to improving the condition of refugees and internally displaced persons.
7. Ms. Lodhi (Pakistan) said that the global wave of displaced persons and refugees gave the Committee's discussions great urgency. Those massive human movements were the consequence of conflicts, persecution, poverty and injustice, and the response of the international community had been much too slow and inadequate. The Committee must thoroughly review the humanitarian crisis and make clear and actionable recommendations to the General Assembly to address the situation. She agreed that there was an urgent need to significantly increase support to host States, who continued to provide protection to millions of people on behalf of the international community.
8. More than half of the current total refugee population were children. In refugee settings, children suffered from a lack of proper education and of access to education and were exposed to heightened risks of child labour, sexual abuse, and other forms of exploitation. Without appropriate protection, an entire generation could be lost.
9. The response to refugees and migrants must be humane above all. While funding was urgent and critical to alleviating human suffering, efforts to find durable solutions to protracted situations must be intensified. To ultimately prevent such mass movements, peace and prosperity needed to be promoted in regions pulverized by violence and deprivation. The United Nations should therefore also focus greater attention on conflict resolution and prevention as a strategic approach to finding a durable and effective response to current and future crises.
10. Despite its modest resources, Pakistan had hosted Afghan refugees for over three decades and continued to be the world's top refugee-hosting country in terms of having the largest protracted refugee population. The economy, ecology and social fabric of the two Pakistani provinces bordering Afghanistan had come under severe strain, and resources had been stretched by the tens of thousands of people who had been temporarily relocated from tribal areas as a consequence of law enforcement operations directed against terrorist groups.
11. She hoped that adequate international support would be forthcoming as Pakistan worked towards resolving that situation. Her country remained
committed to the voluntary return of Afghan refugees in safety and dignity, and urged the international community to help the Afghan Government in creating the necessary conditions for the permanent and safe return of Afghan refugees. While the crisis of new refugees called for urgent action by all, it was necessary to keep in mind the need for the international community to deliver on its commitment to address refugee situations of longer standing.
12. Mr. Tsutsumi (Japan) said that, as the average length of displacement was currently estimated to be 17 years, self-reliance must be promoted among displaced persons with the involvement of host communities, while at the same time providing them with emergency humanitarian assistance and creating an environment which empowered displaced persons as drivers of development and growth. In that regard, it was vital to involve development partners at the earliest stages of a crisis in order to further enhance collaboration with humanitarian actors. Such collaboration between humanitarian and development actors should not end with discussions, but instead be transformed into actions on the ground.
13. Regarding the recent influx of refugees and
migrants into Europe, a resolution of the current
conflict in and around the Syrian Arab Republic, the root cause of the crisis, was vital. Japan would further enhance its assistance for refugees and internally
displaced persons from that country and Iraq. Its assistance in 2015 amounted to approximately $810 million, triple the amount that it provided in 2014. Lastly, although “leaving no one behind” had become a key phrase globally and of the United
Nations Sustainable Development Summit 2015, the international community must realize that the concept must also be applied to the 60 million people currently displaced around the world.
14. Mr. Andanje (Kenya) said that, as the second
largest refugee-hosting country in sub-Saharan Africa, his country attached high priority to matters
concerning refugees. Management of refugees was a global responsibility that must be shared. The burden of hosting refugees had adversely impacted Kenya's scarce material and financial resources, which were required in other priority areas. Nonetheless, Kenya continued to welcome, host and protect refugees.
15. The specific challenges faced by Kenya in hosting refugees were the threat posed by terrorism,
15-19314
3/13
A/C.3/70/SR.41
the environmental degradation of refugee-hosting areas and the decline in the financial support of donors for the management and protection of refugees. Despite those challenges, the Government was working closely with UNHCR to find durable solutions to facilitating the voluntary return of refugees, the majority of whom were from Somalia, to their countries of origin.
16. Some initial progress had been made with regard to repatriation of Somali refugees, although the process appeared to have slowed down. An estimated 50,000 Somali refugees, most of whom had migrated to Kenya following the drought in the Horn of Africa in 2011 and 2012, had voluntarily returned to Somalia in 2014. More recently, 2,969 refugees had voluntarily returned to Somalia under the framework of the tripartite agreement between the Governments of Kenya and Somalia, and UNHCR. The focus had been on ensuring a safe and dignified return and, although many had settled in regions which had stabilized following the end of conflict, security concerns persisted in other regions. However, the repatriation of refugees would likely come to a standstill in view of the impending El Nino phenomenon in Somalia.
17. Successful repatriation and settlement of refugees in Somalia could succeed only if refugees were given the necessary incentives. Infrastructure, including schools, hospitals and water holes, therefore needed to be set up in stabilized areas. It would also be necessary to strengthen the Somali national army and train civilian police in order to provide security in stabilized areas. That would prevent the recycling of refugees back to Kenya or any other country. The peace building and financing arrangements could significantly contribute to developing sustainable institutional capacity by placing Somali institutions at the forefront.
18. The refugee crisis in Europe should be a concern for all. Unfortunately, the focus of attention was on how to stop the refugee flows rather than deal with the cause of the issue. It was necessary to speak out about why the problem was occurring and what needed to be done to address it. The international community must show sympathy and compassion for the suffering. The refugees were primarily fleeing war-torn countries, and international policies affecting those countries were leading to greater human suffering. He, therefore, urged the international community to provide financial support to refugee-hosting countries and UNHCR in view of the magnitude of the crisis.
19. Mr. Kaswan (India) said that, regarding the global refugee crisis, there was no substitute for a concerted and coordinated response on the part of the international community. India agreed that finding durable solutions for refugees and displaced persons was the best form of protection. To that end, developing countries needed assistance to handle the burden of hosting refugees and be in a position to receive returning refugees. That was essential to avoid a shrinking of the asylum space traditionally offered by developing countries. In addition, intensified efforts needed to focus on the safety and security of refugees and also on the challenges posed by non-State actors, who needed to be brought in to assist with the humanitarian framework. Most of all, it was necessary to safeguard mixed movement at sea, in accordance with international humanitarian principles and law.
20. The primary responsibility to look after internally displaced persons lay with national authorities. UNHCR and relevant international action should remain within the bounds of sovereignty and should therefore only be at the request of the country concerned. As a country of origin, transit and destination, India believed that curbing illegal migration required a comprehensive response, including meaningful opportunities for legal migration. However, caution must be exercised so as not to confuse asylum seekers with migrants as the apprehensions of one group should not be superimposed on the other.
21 India was host to large number of refugees and its related programmes were managed entirely from its own resources. His country had clearly demonstrated at all times its commitment to the principles of protection and non-refoulement. Furthermore, as a member of the UNHCR Executive Committee, India had been participating regularly in institutional meetings of UNHCR at all levels in a constructive and collaborative manner.
22. Mr. Azazi Amir (Eritrea) said that his country agreed that the issue of refugees could not be addressed without properly dealing with its root causes. The increasing number of refugee emergencies continued to stretch national and international resources for ensuring the protection of displaced masses. Given the limited resources available, UNHCR should pay greater attention to its core mandate of protecting and providing assistance to refugees, rather than migrants or other persons of concern.
4/13
15-19314
A/C.3/70/SR.41
23. The distinction between economic migrants and refugees was critical to better addressing the protection needs of refugees. International migration required its own strategy with a clear, legal, orderly, regular and non-discriminatory mechanism. Conducting a thorough vetting process to assess refugee claimants was a working method that should be adopted for a long-term solution to their repatriation and reintegration.
24. Eritrea maintained a policy of voluntary repatriation of its nationals wherever they might be and opposed any forced repatriation or expulsion. As a matter of policy practice, Eritreans who had been repatriated faced no persecution and were encouraged and assisted in reintegrating with their families and societies. Unfortunately some groups, including UNHCR, continued to maintain that returnees to Eritrea would face persecution, thus justifying the preferential treatment of Eritreans who were essentially moving from one country to the next until they reached the countries regarded as having the best economic opportunities.
25. While it was important that economic migrants were supported and protected from falling victim to criminal networks, the standing policy of preferential treatment for Eritrean nationals and those posing as Eritreans was regrettably becoming a pull factor and had exposed those persons to smugglers and trafficking in persons. It was common knowledge in countries of destination that many non-Eritreans were exploiting that unjustified policy to acquire the necessary documentation in otherwise lengthy and difficult immigration processes.
26. For the past year, some European countries had been sending missions to Eritrea to gain a better insight into the realities on the ground as part of their efforts to address the migrant crisis and the ensuing political tension. Those countries had since rectified their approach, but Eritrea remained open for constructive engagement with any country or organization with a view to reviewing and adopting policies that corresponded to the realities on the ground and finding a sustainable solution.
27. Lastly, endeavours aimed at assisting refugees must begin with granting refugees full protection and safety. Contrary to the established norms, in Eritrea's region camps funded by UNHCR and ostensibly under international protection mandates were becoming centres for political activism and recruitment for
certain armed groups. Such camps should be under the full control and protection of UNHCR, and no group or individual, armed or unarmed, should be allowed to enter the refugee camps and reception centres.
28. Mr. Yao Shaojun (China) said that the root causes of the current refugee problem were unbalanced development and regional instability. Therefore, in addition to providing humanitarian assistance to refugees, the international community should address issues of poverty and social instability with a greater sense of urgency and attempt to eliminate the causes of conflict in countries such as Iraq, Somalia, South Sudan, the Syrian Arab Republic and Yemen. States should use peaceful means to resolve disputes and strengthen their cooperation in counter-terrorism efforts. They should also seize the opportunity offered by the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development to promote economic and social development, taking into account the specific needs and unique challenges confronted by developing countries. In that context, there should be a particular emphasis on the elimination of poverty, the eradication of hunger and the improvement of health services.
29. Due attention should be given to the impact of the refugee burden on the social and economic development of developing countries, which were currently hosting more than 80 per cent of the world's refugees. Developed countries must bear their share of the burden by accepting refugees, demonstrating tolerance, respecting and promoting the human rights of refugees and increasing financial and humanitarian assistance to developing countries. International refugee protection mechanisms should strictly adhere to the principles of objectivity, neutrality and humanitarianism; abuse or politicization of those mechanisms should not be tolerated. Protection for particularly vulnerable refugees, such as women and children, should be strengthened, and all refugees should be given the necessary assistance to either return to their countries of origin or integrate into their host societies, in accordance with their wishes. China supported the efforts of UNHCR to rationalize its distribution of resources and provide capacity-building assistance to States.
30. China had provided around $37 million in humanitarian supplies and cash assistance to Syrians, including Syrian refugees, and had recently committed to donate an additional $16 million to Jordan, Lebanon and the Syrian Arab Republic. Its 2015 contribution to
15-19314
5/13
A/C.3/70/SR.41
UNHCR amounted to $800,000. China would continue to strengthen its cooperation with UNHCR and other relevant United Nations agencies and work with the international community to promote peace and stability and strengthen international protection for refugees.
31. Mr. Elbahi (Sudan) said that his country remained committed to the 1951 Convention and the 1967 Protocol relating to the Status of Refugees and the 1969 Convention Governing the Specific Aspects of Refugee Problems in Africa. Moreover, the Sudan's heritage and religious values compelled it to honour guests and make every effort to provide them with food and shelter. It had been receiving large numbers of refugees from neighbouring countries for several decades. Its national commission on refugees, established in 1968, worked in collaboration with UNHCR. Furthermore, his Government had recently updated national legislation on refugee issues in 2014, to bring it into line with relevant regional and international instruments.
32. In the 40 years since it had begun hosting refugees from neighbouring African countries, the Sudan had come to bear a burden exceeding its capacity to provide support for refugees, particularly in urban areas, which were not receiving international assistance despite the lofty rhetoric about burden sharing between the international community and refugee host countries. Against that backdrop, his delegation recalled that 70 per cent of refugees had moved from refugee camps to cities; that situation required prompt action by UNHCR and the international community to improve refugee camp conditions and provide necessary services in urban areas.
33. The Sudan had recently received an influx of South Sudanese refugees numbering nearly 200,000 as a result of the ongoing conflict in that country. In recognition of the historic ties between the two countries and out of sympathy for the plight of the South Sudanese people, his Government had granted incoming refugees protection, better living conditions, freedom of movement and the right to work, treating South Sudanese as citizens. The growing numbers of Syrian and Yemeni refugees arriving in Sudan had been treated in the same manner.
34. His Government had exerted efforts to combat transnational organized crime, including trafficking in persons; with its vast borders and deserts, the Sudan
was a transit country prone to such crimes, whose victims were predominantly refugees and asylum seekers. A law on trafficking in persons had been enacted, and the laws on passports and asylum had been amended to include provisions on combating smuggling and trafficking in persons. At the regional level, his Government had concluded border control agreements with neighbouring countries. In October 2014, Khartoum had hosted a regional conference to combat smuggling and trafficking in persons in the Horn of Africa; high-level officials and representatives of national, regional and international organizations had participated.
35. He reiterated the Sudan's commitment to continued cooperation with UNHCR and the broader international community through partnerships based on burden sharing and moving from relief to development in affected areas. He also underscored the need for international support for the voluntary repatriation programme for Sudanese refugees in neighbouring countries. Lastly, he called on the international community to address refugee issues comprehensively in the context of debt relief for developing countries and the lifting of trade restrictions and unilateral sanctions imposed on some of them, including his own country.
36. Ms. Kupradze (Georgia) said that the alarming increase in the number of persons facing protracted displacement called for redoubled efforts on the part of the international community to identify and address the root causes of forced displacement. Georgia assumed its responsibility to provide lasting solutions for displaced persons within its territory, as far as its limited resources would allow, and was committed to guaranteeing their socioeconomic rights. Georgia was currently hosting more than 1,500 refugees and asylum seekers as well as 500,000 persons displaced as a result of the Russian Federation's twenty-year policy of creeping annexation in the Georgian regions of Abkhazia and Tskhinvali/South Ossetia. The barbed wire fences and other obstacles that Russian occupation forces were constructing along the occupation line were restricting the civil, social, economic and cultural rights of the local population and creating another wave of displacement.
37. Her Government was continuing its efforts to remedy the plight of internally displaced persons, in accordance with the United Nations Guiding Principles on Internal Displacement and the relevant resolutions.
6/13
15-19314
A/C.3/70/SR.41
It had taken measures to ensure appropriate living conditions, financial assistance, registration, timely recognition of status, family reunification, restitution of property, health care, education and employment opportunities for all internally displaced persons.
38. The issue of Georgian internally displaced persons should be addressed within the context of the Geneva international discussions; however, consideration of the matter was being impeded by participants from the Russian Federation, Abkhazia and Tskhinvali/South Ossetia. It was regrettable that efforts to establish the conditions necessary for displaced Georgians to make a safe and dignified return had not been successful, especially since a UNHCR survey had revealed that 70.7 per cent were ready to return voluntarily as soon as they were given the opportunity. In conclusion, she stated that Georgia remained committed to working closely with UNHCR and Member States to address the issue of refugees, returnees and displaced persons.
39. Ms. Wardak (Afghanistan) said that the international community must not allow recent crises to eclipse the Afghan refugee issue. Afghanistan was still the leading country of origin of refugees worldwide, accounting for a quarter of the global refugee population. Huge numbers of Afghans had fled protracted proxy wars, terrorism, extremism and radicalism during 40 years of instability, and a significant percentage of Afghan nationals had been born and raised as refugees. While the vast majority were generously hosted by the Islamic Republic of Iran and Pakistan, Afghan nationals had also comprised nearly 15 per cent of the refugees that had reached Europe by boat thus far in 2015.
40. Increasing insecurity and terrorist activity, attacks on humanitarian organizations and difficulties in accessing insecure areas of the country had made repatriation and resettlement efforts challenging. Nevertheless, Afghanistan had one of the highest rates of voluntary return in the world: 5.8 million refugees had returned over the past 14 years. Voluntary repatriation and reintegration was a priority for her Government, which had developed a framework to identify and implement lasting solutions for refugees, created an enhanced voluntary return and reintegration package and established a high commission for migration chaired by the country's President.
41. The obligations of host countries under international law with regard to the protection of refugees, voluntary return and ensuring full and safe access for humanitarian agencies were of the utmost importance. To stem the flow of refugees, the international community must first and foremost strive to put an end to aggression and terrorism around the world. States should also ensure that internally displaced persons and refugees enjoyed the same rights as other citizens or foreign nationals; undertake collective efforts to make sure that refugees were treated with dignity and respect, in line with international law and humanitarian standards; ensure that voluntary resettlement and repatriation efforts were driven by the principles of international solidarity, shared responsibility, burden sharing and partnership; and further invest in bringing peace, stability and economic prosperity to Afghanistan.
42. Mr. Baomran (United Arab Emirates) said that his country was committed to supporting the work of UNHCR, as one of its main donors. The refugee crisis in the Middle East had begun over six decades earlier, with the displacement of the Palestinian people by the Israeli occupation of its land, and had further deteriorated with the eruption of armed conflicts in the Syrian Arab Republic, Iraq and Yemen. His country was working to provide the necessary assistance, both short- and long-term, to its Syrian brethren, in conjunction with the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC). Out of a total of 2.8 million refugees welcomed by GCC countries since the onset of the Syrian crisis in 2011, the United Arab Emirates had received 100,000 and granted them residence permits and authorization to work, bringing the total number of Syrian nationals in the country to 250,000.
43. His Government had allocated $600 million in humanitarian assistance to Syrian refugee camps and communities in Lebanon, Iraq and Jordan since 2011. It had also provided support for Palestine refugees directly and as a standing donor to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA). Its contribution for the 20142015 biennium had totalled $30 million, half of which had gone to food assistance for Palestine refugees in the Syrian Arab Republic. The other half helped forestall the postponement of the academic year in UNRWA areas of operation. His country had also been a member of the UNRWA Advisory Commission since 2014.
15-19314
7/13
A/C.3/70/SR.41
44. In closing, he called for an approach to the refugee crisis that addressed its root causes of poverty, conflict and violent extremism. The international community must strengthen its cooperation to that end and assume its responsibility to provide prompt humanitarian assistance to those affected and to support host countries.
45. Mr. Beshta (Ukraine) said that his delegation welcomed the efforts of the High Commissioner for Refugees to find ways to enhance the capacity of UNHCR, particularly in light of the increasing number and scale of conflicts around the world. Structural and administrative reforms to UNHCR should enhance its capacity to provide an effective response to urgent needs and ensure transparent use of financial resources.
46. His Government was committed to the implementation of the Convention relating to the Status of Refugees and the 1967 Protocol thereto. However, the country was facing the significant humanitarian challenge of over 1.5 million internally displaced persons from conflict areas in Ukraine and temporarily occupied Crimea. In cooperation with UNHCR, it was working under extremely difficult, externally instigated circumstances to provide full support for internally displaced persons in Ukraine and Ukrainian citizens living in occupied territory, including through targeted legislation, budgetary adjustments and the establishment of an inter-agency body to address the issue.
47. His Government was also implementing a vocational training and employment programme for displaced persons and would shortly launch a programme to support their social reintegration. The newly established State agency for the reconstruction of the Donbas would help to create conducive conditions for returning to that region. Local authorities and volunteers were providing services at transit centres in eastern Ukraine, while online resources and telephone hotlines had been put in place to help displaced persons access temporary housing, employment and social services.
48. The underlying causes of displacement in Ukraine were the occupation and attempted illegal annexation by the Russian Federation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and continuing Russian military aggression in eastern Ukraine. Only the full implementation of the Minsk agreements would guarantee the normalization of the humanitarian
and human rights situation. In that connection, it was essential that humanitarian aid should be delivered in accordance with international norms. The Russian practice of sending so-called humanitarian convoys into Ukrainian territory without legal permission, inspection by the Ukrainian authorities or coordination with the International Committee of the Red Cross must end immediately. He urged the Russian Federation to fulfil its commitments under the Minsk agreements and bring its practices into line with international and Ukrainian law.
49. His Government was also concerned that Russian-controlled separatists were deliberately hindering and sabotaging the work of humanitarian organizations in the Donbas, to the extent that only two international humanitarian organizations were operating in the occupied territory as of the end of October 2015. The separatists were currently preventing delivery of around 16,000 metric tons of humanitarian assistance, including food, shelter and medicine, which was placing vulnerable people in an increasingly precarious situation as the weather grew colder. Lastly, he reiterated his Government's readiness to engage in bilateral and multilateral cooperation, in particular with UNHCR, to address challenges and prevent further deterioration of the humanitarian situation in Ukraine.
50. Ms. Ilic (Serbia) said that, since the beginning of 2015, over 330,000 refugees and migrants had entered her country, which was situated on one of the primary migration routes. Her Government fully respected the human rights of those persons and, in cooperation with the Serbian Red Cross, UNHCR and other non-governmental organizations, had made every effort to meet their practical needs. It had also made an enormous effort to improve border management and prevent the exploitation of vulnerable persons by human traffickers. However, the massive influx of refugees was placing a strain on her country's human and financial resources, and the engagement of the entire international community would be needed in order to bring about a definitive solution.
51. The issue of protracted displacement should be addressed in parallel with the current refugee crisis. Serbia was hosting more long-term refugees and internally displaced persons than any other European country: it had been home to 44,000 refugees for two decades and to 200,000 internally displaced persons from Kosovo and Metohija since 1999. More than
8/13
15-19314
A/C.3/70/SR.41
1,000 of those persons were still living in group centres. While local integration had resulted in a decline in the number of refugees in her country, strong political will would be required from all parties, in particular countries of origin, in order to develop long term solutions, enable refugees to return home and ensure that they were fully able to enjoy their rights.
52. Around 16,000 families had been provided homes through the Regional Housing Programme led by Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Montenegro and Serbia, but the need continued to outweigh the resources. She therefore called on the international community to contribute to stability and reconciliation in the region by supplying the funds required to complete the programme.
53. Mr. Teffo (South Africa), recalling paragraph 12 of the report of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (A/70/12), said that the efforts by UNHCR to reinforce its institutional emergency response capacity deserved to be recognized. South Africa welcomed the High Commissioner's appeals for donors to increase funding for humanitarian situations in Africa, including non-earmarked funding, and his efforts to attract donors from emerging economies. It also supported his call for a review of the way humanitarian operations were financed, in particular by strengthening the link between humanitarian and development activities.
54. Asylum seekers and refugees in South Africa had freedom of movement and were permitted to work or study. Refugees could also access a range of social services, including grants and housing. His Government spent over 1.3 billion rand annually on public education for foreign students.
55. International solidarity, cooperation and burdensharing would be required in order to address the humanitarian crisis in the Mediterranean Sea. Most crucially, there was a need for a high-level political commitment to address the root causes of mass migration. A solution to the problem should be promoted through the UNHCR Global Initiative on Protection at Sea and the High Commissioner's Dialogue on Protection Challenges. In that regard, South Africa welcomed the Office's efforts to provide guidance on the principles and practice of rescue -at-sea operations as they applied to refugees and migrants. South Africa looked forward to the development of an inclusive and holistic approach to the refugee question
that would take into account the decreasing number of returnees and promote the implementation of long-term solutions in countries of origin.
56. Ms. Santamaria Ramirez (Colombia) said that Colombia was well acquainted with the challenges of the current global refugee and displacement crises, having faced a comparable situation domestically during more than five decades of conflict. As a result, 13 per cent of her country's population was internally displaced, although forced displacement had decreased by 47 per cent between 2010 and 2014. A 2011 law on victims and land restitution had led to the consolidation of a unified victim registry. The registry disaggregated data on victims by type and year of incident, age, gender, ethnicity and disability, making it possible to assess the current situation of the displaced population and uphold their rights.
57. Since the registry had been established, her Government had responded to 100 per cent of humanitarian emergencies at the three stages of help for victims of forced displacement, namely, immediate, emergency and transitional humanitarian assistance. The international community and UNHCR in particular had made valuable contributions to Colombia's progress in that area. Lastly, she stressed that her Government's efforts were aimed at creating the conditions for a sustainable peace, with victims at the centre of those efforts.
58. Ms. Mballa Eyenga (Cameroon), welcoming the broad financial support received by UNHCR, urged donors to increase their assistance to match the agency's significant challenges, in line with the principle of burden-sharing that underpinned the international protection regime. Her delegation also commended the High Commissioner and UNHCR staff for their efforts to improve the situation of refugees and displaced persons, including those in hard-to-reach areas, amidst ever worsening conditions.
59. In addition to initiatives aimed at providing urgent assistance, long-term, comprehensive strategies to find lasting solutions to protracted situations deserved equal attention. Displacement should be regarded as a development challenge as well as a humanitarian problem. In that regard, her delegation commended UNHCR for its innovative approaches to humanitarian assistance. It also supported the strengthening of partnerships between UNHCR and development actors.
15-19314
9/13
A/C.3/70/SR.41
60. Long-term solutions should be based on voluntary repatriation and resettlement. Alternatives that allowed refugees to live legally and in peace in their host communities should also be considered. Such alternative solutions would require close collaboration with the host country Government, in compliance with domestic laws and policies. Given the untenable pressure placed on local communities by large refugee influxes, additional support, beyond humanitarian aid, must be provided to make refugees and host communities more resilient.
61. After decades of peace and stability, the security situation in Cameroon had been adversely affected by the crisis in the Central African Republic to the east and attacks by Boko Haram in the north of the country. The hundreds of thousands of refugees fleeing violence in the Central African Republic and Nigeria had had a significant socioeconomic impact on the affected regions of Cameroon. Her country was nevertheless determined to shoulder its share. She called on the international community and Member States to work together to find political solutions that addressed the root causes of the conflicts.
62. Mr. Tessema (Ethiopia) said that new emergencies and protracted humanitarian situations had resulted in a massive displacement of people, leading, in turn, to a huge funding gap and affecting the integrity of humanitarian response. A party to several international instruments on refugees, Ethiopia had been hosting refugees for many years and was currently host to more than 700,000 refugees, in line with its open-door policy and international obligations. His Government thanked UNHCR, donors and non-governmental organizations for their continued support in responding to the needs of the large refugee population.
63. In order to assist young refugees who, finding it difficult to remain in refugee camps, risked their lives seeking passage to a third country, Ethiopia had introduced a new policy that allowed them to live outside the camps, built recreational centres and provided technical and vocational education and scholarship programmes. Moreover, refugees wishing to travel to another country were given travel documents.
64. His Government encouraged UNHCR to create strong linkages between multi-year protection and other interim solutions on the one hand and the three
pillars of voluntary repatriation, resettlement and reintegration on the other. Noting with concern the decline in voluntary repatriation since the 1980s, he underscored the need to support Governments in building the necessary infrastructure in order to facilitate conditions for the voluntary repatriation and reintegration of refugees and internally displaced persons and reduce humanitarian aid dependency.
65. As the number of resettlement opportunities reached only a fraction of the population in need, UNHCR should explore initiatives aimed at expanding resettlement opportunities, in the spirit of shared responsibility and international solidarity. Given the diminishing scope of protection and quality of assistance resulting from the increased need for aid, the international community, UNHCR and partners should strengthen the capacity of host States. Mechanisms to enable refugee camps to provide training and income generating activity might also help reduce the dependency of refugees on humanitarian aid.
66. Ms. Muedin (International Organization for Migration (IOM)) said that the human mobility aspect of humanitarian crises had become more acute with each passing year. The most tragic aspect of forced migration was the growing number of deaths at sea and along perilous migratory routes. The first World Humanitarian Summit, to be held in 2016, would give the international community the opportunity to build a framework for an adequate humanitarian response to that reality. In that regard, cooperation between IOM and UNHCR was more relevant than ever.
67. IOM had considerably expanded the reach of its humanitarian interventions in response to crises in the Syrian Arab Republic, South Sudan, the Central African Republic and other countries. Although resettlement would be an option for only a small proportion of refugees, government announcements on resettlement figures in response to the Syrian crisis were nevertheless welcome.
68. The complex challenges brought on by new forms of human mobility and mixed migratory flows, including border management, asylum and protection, and smuggling and trafficking, were unlikely to be durably impacted by one-dimensional solutions. Indeed, those challenges required IOM and UNHCR to adapt and collaborate. For example, the two organizations had supported the formulation and launch of a regional plan in response to the external
10/13
15-19314
A/C.3/70/SR.41
displacement generated by the Yemen crisis. They had also committed to work towards joint approaches and planning at all points along migration routes in response to the migration flows directed towards Europe and the Mediterranean. Those efforts illustrated the relevance of their close partnership and provided a strong precedent for the future with regard to responding to the mobility dimension of crises.
69. Ms. Deer (International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC)) said that the international community should not grow complacent with regard to large-scale and protracted displacement. The growing numbers of internally displaced persons and refugees were clear indications of the inadequacy of the international response. Accordingly, ICRC called for much stronger diplomatic and political engagement on the part of Governments. An appropriate response on the part of States required a clear understanding of the vulnerabilities associated with each phase of displacement. Because governmental structures, policies and programmes could make little impact unless accompanied by adequate financial and human resources, development actors should become engaged alongside humanitarian actors from the outset of conflict.
70. It should be recalled that humanitarian actors could not be drawn into politically driven processes if they were to preserve their ability to reach victims on all sides. ICRC would continue to work for the implementation of international humanitarian law and to pursue strictly neutral, independent and impartial humanitarian action. Whenever possible, it would do so in close cooperation with National Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies. However, more must be done. The international community should strive to significantly reduce the number of displaced persons, the average duration of displacement and the suffering that it entailed.
71. Mr. Madiwale (International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC)) said that there were an estimated 60 million forcibly displaced people in the world, 33 million of whom were internally displaced persons. In 2014 alone, nearly 14 million people had been newly displaced, with only 126,000 able to return home. While the international community had paid welcome attention to the issue in recent months, it was crucial that it understood the global nature of the problem and realized that there was no single cause or single solution. A broad range
of measures at the global, regional, national and local levels was needed.
72. With the understanding that the average duration of displacement was 17 years, efforts were needed in the areas of education, health care, jobs and livelihoods; actions should be undertaken to reduce the strain on the infrastructure and basic services provided by host countries. That would require the joint collaboration of development and humanitarian actors, in addition to long-term and predictable financing that would both incentivize and make such action possible. In addition, more direct support should be given to local actors on the front lines responding to the needs of displaced persons.
73. Nearly 600,000 refugees and migrants had arrived at Europe's shores so far in 2015. While a few States had met that situation with generosity and kindness, the collective response had been one of indifference and apathy. A similar situation had occurred nearly 60 years earlier, wherein a coordinated response had been launched to assist some 200,000 refugees. If its predecessors could manage a successful and humane response then, surely the international community could now transcend the xenophobic and narrow-minded politics of the day to organize a coordinated, comprehensive and humane response to the crisis on Europe's shores.
74. IFRC and its 189 National Societies were at the frontlines, addressing the needs of displaced people all along the migratory route. The Turkish Red Crescent, in particular, had been providing support to 275,000 refugees since 2012. The German Red Cross ran 375 accommodation centres, which hosted 120,000 people. The Federation provided food, shelter, clothes, blankets and psychosocial support and restoration of family links. IFRC, united and guided by its fundamental principles, was committed to providing an environment for displaced people to live in dignity and be respected at all stages of their journey. It stood ready to partner with all actors to address those challenges and to promote safe, orderly and dignified human mobility.
75. Ms. Mansouri (Algeria) commended UNHCR for its tireless efforts to offer protection, assistance and hope to the millions of refugees around the world and wished to pay tribute to the staff members that had lost their lives in the exercise of their functions. The number of people displaced by conflict and persecution
15-19314
11/13
A/C.3/70/SR.41
had reached its highest level since the Second World War. Algeria was particularly concerned by the situations in sub-Saharan Africa, where the number of refugees had increased from 2.9 million to 3.7 million in one year, and the number of internally displaced persons had reached 11.4 million, and in the Syrian Arab Republic. It was important not to lose sight of protracted refugee situations even while responding to newer emergencies. The international community should continue its search for durable solutions that addressed the underlying causes of such situations and created conditions conducive to voluntary repatriation.
76. Host countries needed solidarity and support. Algeria had long hosted Sahrawi refugees from the non-self-governing territory of Western Sahara in anticipation of a durable solution to that people's plight based on their exercise of the right to self determination and a settlement plan endorsed by the Security Council. Although Algeria was committed to providing the necessary support, it urged the international community, in particular donors, to provide assistance to UNHCR, which had recently responded to the devastating flooding in the Sahrawi refugee camps. Algeria was currently hosting a large number of refugees from the Syrian Arab Republic, Libya and Mali, among other countries. Her Government would remain engaged with UNHCR and other stakeholders to address the plight of all refugees.
77. Mr. Rabi (Morocco) said that the capacity of UNHCR and its partners was severely strained by the scope and complexity of existing emergency situations. Despite the progress achieved in finding sustainable solutions to those issues, priority should be placed on refugee repatriation. The African continent, which had about one-third of the world's refugees, was particularly impacted. Morocco welcomed the efforts undertaken by sub-Saharan African countries to host refugees, and to provide asylum and protection in their territory.
78. The scope of the mixed migration flows to Europe and the Mediterranean had forced the international community to rethink its approach to humanitarian assistance. That approach should be humane, security-focused, and based on cooperation among all stakeholders. Moreover, greater efforts should be made to find sustainable solutions to the crises that had caused those migratory flows.
79. UNHCR registration of refugees was crucial to ensure their protection. As UNHCR was not a political entity, no one should assume that particular action had political implications. As such, host countries, which not only had the statutory, moral and humanitarian responsibility to help meet the basic needs of refugees, but which were also responsible for potential security risks in connection with them, should allow UNHCR to carry out that task. Unfortunately, in violation of its international obligations, a host country had not allowed UNHCR to carry out the registration of refugees. Accordingly, UNHCR and the international community should use all available means to ensure the registration of those populations, and host countries should also abide by the provisions of international law and guarantee the rights of the populations in their territory.
Statements made in exercise of the right of reply
80. Mr. Lukiyantsev (Russian Federation) said that it was time for Georgia to acknowledge the fact that South Ossetia and Abkhazia were two independent sovereign States. His delegation agreed with the representative of Ukraine that a political solution based on the Minsk agreements was crucial to resolving pressing issues, including humanitarian questions, in the southeast of Ukraine. The Ukrainian Government was urged, in line with those agreements, to establish dialogue with Donetsk and Luhansk, and to begin direct negotiations with a view to resolving existing differences.
81. Ukraine should end the blockade of the Donbas, which had contributed significantly to the worsening humanitarian situation in the southeast of Ukraine. Finally, he wished to recall that the people of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea had fully exercised their right to self-determination in line with the provisions of the Charter of the United Nations, international human rights instruments, and the 1970 Declaration on Principles of International Law concerning Friendly Relations and Co-operation among States in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations.
82. Ms. Kupradze (Georgia) said that the remarks made by the Russian Federation with regard to the so called independent, sovereign territories within Georgia were completely unsubstantiated. The Russian Federation wished to dissociate itself from the conflict, and its statements were made for the sole purpose of
12/13
15-19314
A/C.3/70/SR.41
misleading the international community when, in reality, it exercised effective control of the aforementioned regions. Regrettably, such practices extended well past the territory of Georgia and into neighbouring nations.
83. Discussions of the root causes of displacement should accompany any dialogue on the rights of internally displaced persons; in that instance they were the illegal military occupation of Abkhazia and Tskhinvali and the forced displacement of the people who used to reside there. Georgia would make it a point to raise the issue at every opportunity and in every forum, including in the Third Committee, the General Assembly, the Security Council and, now that it was a member, in the Human Rights Council as well.
84. Mr. Beshta (Ukraine) said that subgroups were the main mechanism through which the Minsk agreements were being implemented. He called on the Russian Government and Russian-supported terrorists to refrain from hindering the activities of those subgroups, one of which was dedicated to humanitarian questions. The activities of that particular subgroup were consistently blocked, and the initiatives of his Government to allow for the provision of humanitarian assistance, among others, ignored. Ukraine therefore called on the Russian Federation and the separatists to act constructively within the framework of the aforementioned mechanism. It should be recalled that the Minsk agreements made no mention of direct dialogue between his Government and the separatists. Ukraine stood ready to resolve all necessary issues within the framework of the subgroups.
The meeting rose at 12.15 p.m.
15-19314
13/13