United Nations
A/C.3/70/SR.5
General Assembly
Seventieth session
Official Records
Distr.: General 4 November 2015
Original: English
Third Committee
Summary record of the 5th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Thursday, 8 October 2015, at 10 a.m.
Chair: Mr. Hilale (Morocco)
later: Ms. Kupradze (Vice-Chair) (Georgia)
Contents
Agenda item 106: Crime prevention and criminal justice Agenda item 107: International drug control
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Control Unit (srcorrections@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
15-17403 (E)
in ii ii i ii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
A/C.3/70/SR.5
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 106: Crime prevention and criminal justice (A/70/90-E/2015/81, A/70/93, A/70/94, A/70/99, A/70/121 and A/70/407)
Agenda item 107: International drug control
(A/70/87-E/2015/79 and A/70/98)
1. Mr. Rattray (Jamaica), speaking on behalf of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), said that CARICOM had a long history of principled justice systems; however, many failed to reach their full potential because they were overburdened and underfunded. International cooperation could help to remedy the situation by strengthening and developing national capacity in the justice sector. Transnational organized crime, including trafficking in persons, money-laundering and corruption, drug trafficking and the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons, continued to challenge the development and socioeconomic stability of Caribbean societies, and the region was continuing its efforts to counter those illegal activities and reduce their impact within the region. CARICOM had benefitted significantly in that regard from cooperation with key partners, including the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC). Regional efforts included measures to enhance regional border security, examine strategic issues and develop strategic partnerships with respect to intelligence sharing, and were expected to bolster the region's capacity to ensure safe, secure borders and reduce the negative impact of crime.
2. CARICOM looked forward to the special session of the General Assembly on the world drug problem to be held in 2016 and expressed appreciation for the preparatory work carried out by the Commission on Narcotic Drugs. The Commission should continue to keep Member States informed, in particular since not all Member States were represented in Vienna, and CARICOM had no representation there at all. As many smaller delegations had been unable to attend the briefing on preparations for the special session, he encouraged UNODC to consider holding follow-up briefings for interested States.
3. The broadest possible participation in the special session should be encouraged, just as the global nature of the world drug problem should not be overlooked. Only through a global, well-coordinated strategic plan would the international community be able to overcome
illicit drug use and trafficking. The Political Declaration and Plan of Action on International Cooperation towards an Integrated and Balanced Strategy to Counter the World Drug Problem had served as a guide for collective action thus far. The special session would provide an opportunity for the international community to reaffirm its shared commitment to combating the world drug problem, but that time should also be used to assess the effectiveness of the current strategy, re-determine priorities and set a path for future efforts.
4. Broad coordination and collaboration between United Nations agencies and other relevant bodies on the world drug problem was of vital importance. Those agencies should work jointly and in support of Member States, as well as with civil society and other relevant experts. Drug policy should address illicit activities related to drug trafficking and drug use while also ensuring the availability of drugs for scientific, healthrelated and medical purposes. Drug policy should also take into account HIV prevention, treatment and care services, and the need for access to medication for non-communicable diseases.
5. UNODC needed adequate, predictable and stable resources to fulfil its mandate, in particular with regard to supporting the capacity-building requirements of Member States and cooperation with regional bodies. CARICOM looked forward to the re-opening of the UNODC subregional office in the Caribbean, which would strengthen cooperation with Member States and improve the implementation of programmes within the region.
6. Ms. Tan (Singapore), speaking on behalf of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), said that the ASEAN Plan of Action to Combat Transnational Crime had significantly strengthened the region's capacity to combat transnational crime and disrupt the activities of transnational crime syndicates. Both the ASEAN Convention on Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children and the ASEAN Plan of Action against Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children had been endorsed during the tenth ASEAN ministerial meeting on transnational crime. Moreover, an emergency ASEAN ministerial meeting on transnational crime had resulted in the issuance of the Kuala Lumpur Declaration on Irregular Movement of Persons in Southeast Asia and the establishment of a trust fund to help member States to address the issue.
2/15
15-17403
A/C.3/70/SR.5
7. The ASEAN Convention on Counter-Terrorism served as a framework for the coordination of regional efforts to prevent and suppress terrorism, and for deepened cooperation in that regard. The Convention aligned the region's efforts with the United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy, as well as relevant United Nations resolutions and conventions. A number of meetings had been held in 2014 and 2015 to enhance efforts to combat cybercrime and the growing threat of radicalization.
8. The global production and use of illicit drugs continued to be a challenge, and the rapid proliferation of new psychoactive substances was especially worrying. The reported number of 541 such substances was far greater than the 243 currently controlled under the United Nations drug conventions. Moreover, the anonymity of online drug-related transactions made it difficult to trace the individuals involved. ASEAN had made a commitment to intensify efforts to achieve a drug-free region and had maintained a zero -tolerance approach to drugs. Failure to effectively deal with the drug problem posed a threat to social stability, national security and the rule of law. ASEAN member States had made significant progress, including in their action to counter drug-trafficking and the creation of new platforms, such as the ASEAN Airport Interdiction Task Force and the ASEAN Narcotics Coordination Centre, which had successfully disrupted drug syndicate operations and improved coordination and information flows between law enforcement agencies in the region. The recent institutionalization of the ASEAN Ministerial Meeting on Drug Matters would further strengthen ASEAN cooperation in that respect.
9. The vision of a drug -free ASEAN community continued to guide regional policies and strategies. A comprehensive combination of upstream preventive measures and downstream enforcement and intervention measures was necessary to address both the demand and supply sides. The special session of the General Assembly on the world drug problem to be held in 2016 would be a platform for countries to decide how best to continue the global fight against drugs. Each country faced unique challenges; a one-size-fits-all approach to tackling the world drug problem was therefore inappropriate. ASEAN member States, despite the significant variation in their economic and social development and social and historical contexts, would remain united in their pursuit of a drug-free community. ASEAN member States had demonstrated
that collective community efforts could send the message to international crime and drug syndicates that they would not be allowed to gain a foothold in the region.
10. Mr. Whiteley (Observer for the European Union), speaking also on behalf of the candidate countries Albania, Montenegro, Serbia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Turkey; the stabilisation and association process country Bosnia and Herzegovina; and, in addition, the Republic of Moldova and Ukraine, said that the European Union was deeply concerned that transnational organized crime continued to hinder sustainable development and legitimate economic activity, as well as to undermine democratic governance, the rule of law and security. The Doha Declaration on Integrating Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice into the Wider United Nations Agenda to Address Social and Economic Challenges to Promote the Rule of Law at the National and International Levels, and Public Participation could assist Member States in shaping their crime prevention and criminal justice systems to respond to current challenges. Not only were the European Union and its Member States determined to fully implement the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, Goal 16 of which reflected the approach of that Declaration, they were also committed to supporting other States' efforts to do so.
11. The European Union urged all States that had not yet done so to sign, ratify or implement the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and its protocols, as well as the United Nations Convention against Corruption. For its part, the European Union had ratified the Firearms Protocol to the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime in March 2014, and was providing financial support to UNODC for the review of its implementation.
12. Greater public awareness of corruption had led to the adoption of new national legislation and anti-corruption strategies and the establishment of new institutions. The European Union looked forward to the discussions that would facilitate the closure of the first cycle and launch of the second cycle of the Mechanism for the Review of Implementation of the United Nations Convention against Corruption. Constructive dialogue between States Parties and civil society would substantially contribute to improving the impact of the convention.
15-17403
3/15
A/C.3/70/SR.5
13. The European Agenda on Security prioritized the need to improve efforts to combat illicit firearms trafficking, disrupt criminal supply chains and deter illicit use. The European Union would explore proposals to reduce legal uncertainty for investigative authorities, facilitate prosecutions, ensure that criminals were unable to exploit loopholes, and reduce incentives for forum shopping among jurisdictions. Together with the Western Balkan States, the European Union had adopted a joint action plan to assess the risk of arms trafficking from North Africa and the Middle East. Joint police operations to combat firearms trafficking were also under consideration. In that regard, the entry into force of the Arms Trade Treaty was a welcome event.
14. Migrant smugglers were placing many lives at risk, as demonstrated by the tragedy that had befallen many migrants attempting to cross the Mediterranean in recent months; it also demonstrated how international organized crime could destabilize an entire region. The penalties imposed should take into account any such aggravating circumstances. The European Union had launched a naval operation in June, in addition to the Triton and Poseidon naval operations, to disrupt the business model of smuggling and trafficking networks. A ministerial conference on increased migratory flows from the Middle East to Europe and on the importance of the Western Balkan route had been held that day in Luxembourg, while on 11-12 November, European and African partners would meet in Malta to discuss how best to handle migratory flows.
15. Although migrant smuggling and human trafficking were distinct legal concepts, in practice one could lead to the other. The European Union Charter of Fundamental Rights clearly prohibited trafficking in human beings, while Directive 2011/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council addressed such trafficking as a serious form of organized crime. Upholding human rights in the efforts to combat trafficking was essential. European Union activities in that regard were guided by the Strategy towards the Eradication of Trafficking in Human Beings 2012 -2016 and coordinated by the European Union Anti-Trafficking Coordinator. Moreover, the European Union continued to promote higher standards in the efforts to combat trafficking in persons, including through regional dialogue, in particular the Khartoum Process. The international community must pursue greater cooperation
to protect the victims of the multi-billion-dollar human trafficking business and bring the perpetrators to justice.
16. The special session of the General Assembly on the world drug problem to be held in 2016 should be used to take stock of the achievements of the international drug control system and to consider the remaining challenges at the global, local and national levels. In that context, the European Union was committed to the relevant conventions, which provided sufficient scope and flexibility to accommodate a wide range of approaches to drug policy in accordance with national and regional priorities. The European Union would stand by its principled position against the death penalty in all circumstances, and it was a matter of concern that a number of States continued to apply the death penalty to drug-related crimes and adopt other practices that were not consistent with the principles of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. Accordingly, the European Union would continue to advocate a moratorium on executions, as a first step towards the full abolition of capital punishment.
17. At the special session, the European Union would promote a public health dimension based on scientific evidence and emphasising prevention, early detection and intervention, treatment, risk and harm reduction, rehabilitation and social reintegration. The objective of the drug control system was to protect public health, protect citizens against social damage caused by drug use and contribute to the reintegration of drug users into society. A supporter of the revised Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners, the European Union encouraged all Member States to improve detention conditions in accordance with those rules and all other relevant and applicable United Nations standards and norms. Overcrowding in prisons and other poor prison conditions in many States raised questions of human rights.
18. The consensual adoption of General Assembly resolution 69/314 on tackling illicit trafficking in wildlife demonstrated the political commitment to efforts to address that issue in a comprehensive way at the global, regional and national levels. Those efforts should go far beyond conservation or protection measures, and the European Union was currently developing an action plan intended to step up its efforts in that area. Annual consideration of the topic was welcome; the recommendations of the Secretary-General were expected to form the basis for an action-oriented resolution at the seventy-first session.
4/15
15-17403
A/C.3/70/SR.5
19. The European Union was strongly committed to ensuring a free, open and secure Internet while respecting individual human rights. The Convention on Cybercrime of the Council of Europe remained a model for national and European Union legislation on cybercrime, as well as the standard for international police and judicial cooperation and capacity -building. All steps taken by countries outside Europe towards the ratification of or accession to the Convention were welcomed. The European Union funded programmes to build capacity outside Europe through the Council of Europe.
20. International efforts had contributed to a significant decline in piracy off the coast of Somalia; however, piracy and armed robbery at sea continued to threaten the security of important international maritime routes and international trade. The European Union Naval Force Atalanta operation was proof of the European Union's long-standing commitment to the fight against piracy in the Western Indian Ocean. The positive results achieved by the Contact Group on Piracy off the Coast of Somalia under European Union chairmanship were a further reflection of that commitment. Local efforts to tackle maritime crimes in West Africa deserved coordinated international support. In that respect, the European Union was supporting seven African countries in their efforts to enhance the security and increase the safety of maritime routes in the Gulf of Guinea, notably through the Critical Maritime Routes Programme.
21. Mr. Ona Garces (Ecuador), speaking on behalf of the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States (CELAC), said that the widespread implications of the world drug problem had been recognized in a special declaration adopted at the third Summit of Heads of State and Government of the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States. It was important to strengthen international cooperation, share good practices and promote comprehensive policies. Addressing the world drug problem was a shared responsibility that would require a strengthened response from the United Nations system. State efforts to reduce the impact of organized crime should be combined with policies focused on citizen welfare, the protection of nature and the environment and respect for international instruments on human rights. Drug abuse and dependence should be addressed as public health problems, through social inclusion and comprehensive care policies.
22. Demand reduction policies should include a perspective on gender and vulnerable groups while fully respecting human rights. They should also take into consideration the specific situation of each State. CELAC was committed to the promotion of bilateral, regional and multilateral cooperation in countering the illicit cultivation of crops for the production, manufacture, transit, trafficking, distribution and abuse of illicit drugs. Those methods could include the sharing of experiences, lessons learned, intelligence and information. CELAC also supported joint action to identify and combat organized criminal groups involved in drug trafficking.
23. CELAC had held a first ministerial meeting on the world drug problem in 2014, which had contributed to strengthening regional cooperation. At the second ministerial meeting in May 2015, CELAC had noted the need to strengthen the relevant regional technical and political bodies and to reach a consensual understanding of the issue prior to the special session of the General Assembly. CELAC was committed to furthering its understanding and tackling the structural causes of the world drug problem.
24. In accordance with the principle of common and shared responsibility, the needs of small island developing States should be recognized in regional and international drug policies. It was CELAC policy to enhance community involvement in various socioeconomic and environmental protection projects and programmes in order to help reduce illicit drug related activities, and to promote human development. The international community should strengthen cooperation on the world drug problem, in particular by promoting and encouraging relevant comprehensive policies on that issue. Due consideration should be given to input from regional and subregional organizations and to the strengthening of cross regional cooperation.
25. Efforts to counter drug dependency should include alternatives to imprisonment, including care, rehabilitation, and social reintegration. CELAC recognized the role of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs and its subsidiary bodies, which, together with the International Narcotics Control Board, had prime responsibility for drug control matters. The Commission on Narcotic Drugs should lead an inclusive preparatory process involving extensive and substantive consultations with all relevant stakeholders. CELAC would be an
15-17403
5/15
A/C.3/70/SR.5
active participant in both the preparatory process and the 2016 special session
26. Mr. Abdrakhmanov (Kazakhstan), speaking as Chair of the Council of Heads of State of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) and on behalf of Armenia, Belarus, Kyrgyz Republic, Russian Federation, Tajikistan and the associate State Turkmenistan, said that the CIS Statute and other legal documents provided the basis for joint efforts to combat crime, particularly economic crime. CIS member States were implementing joint measures to combat organized crime and other dangerous forms of crime on their territory. Given the financial globalization of crime, combating corruption required international coordination of efforts to counter money laundering. In that regard, CIS member States looked forward to a fruitful discussion at the forthcoming sixth session of the Conference of the States Parties to the United Nations Convention against Corruption, to be held in November in the Russian Federation.
27. The United Nations should take a systemic approach to the issue of eradicating modern slavery, and he emphasized the importance of fulfilment by all partners of the United Nations Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons. The Commonwealth welcomed the inclusion of the issue of combating organized crime, including trafficking in persons, in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
28. In order to foster partnership in the efforts to combat trafficking in persons and the exchange of good practices among CIS member States, an international training centre for law enforcement and other staff had been established in Minsk. The centre provided annual training sessions for representatives of the law enforcement agencies of CIS member States and other States. In July 2015, in the context of events to observe the World Day against Trafficking in Persons, the centre had organized a second seminar for representatives of the Group of Friends United against Human Trafficking. The Central Asian Regional Information and Coordination Centre in Almaty played an important role in countering illicit drug trafficking. On 16 October, the Council of Heads of State of the CIS was expected to sign agreements and adopt a number of decisions on the strengthening of transborder security.
29. Ms. Abdelkawy (Egypt) said that her delegation expressed appreciation for the technical assistance provided by UNODC, in particular through its regional
office in Cairo, in the areas of trafficking in persons, drug addiction, corruption and juvenile justice. She also noted with appreciation the support provided by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, which had integrated the response to trafficking in persons into its protection response mechanisms and supported regional efforts to combat that phenomenon. Egypt had adopted a comprehensive national drug control strategy that took both supply and demand reduction into account and that aimed to enhance international cooperation on the issue.
30. It was important to set priorities prior to the meeting to appraise the progress achieved in the implementation of the United Nations Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons in 2016. Terrorists did not discriminate between developing and developed societies, nor did they belong to any one religious faith; international cooperation should therefore be intensified to eliminate the support provided to terrorist groups. Her delegation urged the international community to stand firmly against trafficking in cultural property and take appropriate measures to restore Egypt's looted historical antiquities, in accordance with the 1970 Convention on the Means of Prohibiting and Preventing the Illicit Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property.
31. UNODC should be provided with adequate, predictable and stable resources, including additional regular budget resources as well as voluntary contributions, to enable it to respond effectively to the increasing demand for technical assistance. The characteristics and special needs of each region in relation to the world drug problem must be taken into account in dealing with the problem internationally, respecting the sovereignty and penal systems of Member States.
32. Mr. Ruiz Blanco (Colombia) said that new ways to combat the world drug problem must be explored, in view of the mixed results of the current approach. Protecting the health and well-being of humankind must be at the centre of all such efforts. With only one of every six drug users having access to treatment and thousands dying of drug overdoses worldwide, new measures had to be taken. Colombia was reviewing its domestic drug policy in the light of 40 years of experience in combating the drug problem and was tackling illicit cultivation directly; as a result, thousands of hectares of coca cultivation had been destroyed. Alternative development had been a linchpin of
6/15
15-17403
A/C.3/70/SR.5
his Government's comprehensive strategy, with an investment of over $400 million benefiting more than 150,000 families. That investment accounted for a significant proportion of production of cacao, rubber, sustainable wood and other crops, and had made it possible to preserve 1.2 million hectares of forest land.
33. Mr. Rabi (Morocco) said that the international community should invest in prevention, treatment and support for drug addicts in order to reduce the cost of health services, improve security and contribute to social cohesion and development. Policies to combat the drug problem should include strategies for demand reduction; better sharing of information and best practices for supply reduction; and measures to promote alternative development. Morocco occupied a strategic geographical position and was committed to optimizing its activities to address emerging global threats within an integrated strategic framework. Government efforts to combat cannabis cultivation had reduced the cannabis crop by over 65 per cent. Significant resources were also being directed towards projects to foster alternative development, taking into account human development, environmental protection and biodiversity. As part of a balanced approach, Moroccan authorities had been closely monitoring land and sea borders, deploying considerable human and technical resources.
34. In recent years, Morocco had been coordinating efforts with Spain to respond to the entry into Moroccan territory of light aircraft used in international drug trafficking. His Government was also taking steps to address the alarming rise of regional trafficking in cocaine by well-organized criminal entities. Morocco remained committed to contributing to international efforts to combat the drug problem and the associated criminal activities, in a spirit of shared responsibility and coordinated response. In closing, his delegation welcomed the capacity-building activities of UNODC and its support for the exchange of good practices on drug control.
35. Ms. Kupradze (Georgia), Vice-Chair, took the Chair.
36. Mr. Al-Maal (Qatar) said that joint international efforts to combat terrorism and transnational crime were all the more important in an era when criminal organizations could use communications technology to coordinate their activities and exploit legal loopholes and weak institutions in order to operate with impunity. For its part, Qatar had taken measures to strengthen
legislative and institutional frameworks to combat crime, including a legislative review to bring national laws into line with its international obligations. His country had also hosted the Thirteenth United Nations Congress on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice in April 2015. Moreover, it continued to implement its national anti-drug strategy for 2010-2015, in accordance with the Qatar National Vision 2030.
37. At Qatar's initiative, the Third International Humanitarian Pledging Conference for Syria had been held in Kuwait. His country had also proposed the establishment of a joint fund for education and vocational training for Syrian refugees and displaced persons. The aim was to protect Syrian youth from falling prey to violence, extremism and crime.
38. Mr. Roet (Israel) said that Israel had undertaken a society-wide effort to end the pandemic of drug abuse. It focused on the underlying reasons for drug use, concentrating on prevention, rehabilitation and the reintegration of drug users into society. The Israel Anti-Drug Authority was in charge of national mobilization to ensure an effective response to the campaign against drugs. His Government also took into account the impact of differences in gender, age and cultural and religious background by tailoring programmes to meet the needs of vulnerable groups. At the fifty-eighth session of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs, a landmark Israeli resolution on accessible treatment for children and youth affected by substance abuse had been adopted unanimously.
39. Unique therapeutic approaches, including weekly internet online support groups, were available in Israel, and resources were invested in the provision of cuttingedge drug treatment. A national monitoring centre on drugs and alcohol had been established to strengthen the scientific basis for drug - and alcohol-related policies and programmes.
40. The Israeli Agency for International Development Cooperation hosted training courses for professionals from developing countries in areas related to alcohol and drugs. UNODC had played an active role in the workshops since 2012 and had concluded a memorandum of understanding with the Agency in 2014. Specific legislation had been enacted and an awareness campaign launched to combat the use of new psychoactive substances, which was widely perceived as legal.
15-17403
7/15
A/C.3/70/SR.5
41. Mr. Ri'os Sanchez (Mexico) said that a comprehensive approach to the drug problem would require action to promote development and human rights, thereby countering the root causes of the phenomenon. The special session of the General Assembly on the world drug problem, to be convened in 2016, would help ensure that the global drug control strategy was based on the pillars of human rights, security and development, which had been affirmed by the recently adopted 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. In spite of the national, regional and global efforts of Member States, global drug consumption was still on the rise, with over 250 new psychoactive substances currently in circulation worldwide that were not subject to the drug control mechanisms set out in the conventions.
42. Transnational criminal organizations had embraced new trafficking routes and other forms of crime, including trafficking in persons and money -laundering. Meanwhile, the human impact of the world drug problem remained significant, as the attendant violence exacerbated exclusion and the weakening of the social fabric. A preventive approach was therefore needed in order to avoid criminalizing, stigmatizing or marginalizing the most vulnerable individuals. In closing, he reaffirmed his country's commitment to implementing the outcomes of the thirteenth United Nations Congress on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice.
43. Mr. Tenya Hasegawa (Peru) said that drug policies must be comprehensive, balanced and sustainable. They should prioritize human dignity and promote the wellbeing, social inclusion and access to education, health care and justice of individuals, whilst reducing threats to democracy, governance, security and the rule of law. Peruvians, in particular those in the poorest communities, had suffered the effects of the illicit drug trade and related terrorist activity for many years. It was important to implement comprehensive drug policies and develop alternative solutions. No one aspect of the fight against drugs should be prioritized over others.
44. The special session of the General Assembly on the world drug problem to be held in 2016 would provide an opportunity for Member States to evaluate their progress and address remaining challenges, in line with the objectives of the 2009 Political Declaration and Plan of Action towards an Integrated and Balanced Strategy to Counter the World Drug Problem. The full legal force of the international drug control conventions
should also be reiterated at the session. Efforts should be made to reduce both demand and supply, and any potential solutions must be in line with international law, the relevant United Nations conventions and the human rights obligations of Member States as well as the principles of sovereignty and national integrity and non-intervention in internal affairs of other States. His delegation supported the central role of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs, the primary United Nations body competent to address the world drug problem, in the preparations for the special session. Peru reiterated its commitment to comprehensive, balanced, sustainable and multidisciplinary strategies to address the complex global drug problem and its political, economic, social and environmental effects, and reaffirmed the principle of joint and shared responsibility and the importance of international cooperation in national efforts.
45. Mr. Marini (Italy) said that, in addition to the adoption of the 2030 Agenda, five other important developments relating to crime prevention and criminal justice and international drug control had taken place in 2015. The Doha Declaration had been an enormous step forward in terms of culture, political will and the identification of tools that could be used to respond to the criminal activities that threatened community life around the world and even the stability of certain States. Furthermore, the United Nations system had begun to give increased attention to new phenomena associated with international terrorism, as reflected in Security Council resolutions 2195 (2014) and 2199 (2015). Various General Assembly and Security Council committees had provided important knowledge and analyses, while the recently initiated dialogue in support of the process towards the 2016 special session on the world drug problem would continue into 2016, in cooperation with the Commission on Narcotic Drugs, the Vienna institutions, civil society and the scientific community. The Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners (the Mandela Rules) had been approved, and important resolutions on sensitive and relevant issues such as the preservation of the artistic and cultural heritage of Iraq and the protection of wildlife had been adopted.
46. The Committee should update its goals and language in line with those recent developments. Organized crime could only be effectively tackled through increased international cooperation. The resolution on criminal justice should be clear and actionable at
8/15
15-17403
A/C.3/70/SR.5
the national, international and regional levels. The Sustainable Development Goals provided the fundamental basis for combating crime and ensuring the rule of law, respect for human rights and development for all. Within that framework, Member States must work together to establish a fair and effective justice system that could help put an end to conflicts and eliminate the serious crime that undermined the peaceful and constructive coexistence of communities.
47. Mr. Wat (Singapore) said that Singapore was committed to the vision of a drug -free world. The eradication of drugs was a Government priority, as the small size and dense population of the country, together with its proximity to the Golden Triangle, made it particularly vulnerable to the risks associated with drug trafficking. Consequently, his Government had adopted a zero-tolerance stance against drugs, with a comprehensive approach that involved preventive education, tough laws and strong enforcement, and community-supported rehabilitation. Rehabilitation and supervision programmes had been established to treat drug abusers according to their age and risk profile. Young drug abusers considered to be at moderate risk could be placed in community rehabilitation centres whilst continuing with their studies or employment. Adults were treated at rehabilitation centres and then placed in structured reintegration programmes. As a result, the recidivism rate had dropped from 50 per cent in 2000 to 28.3 per cent in 2012. Drug users who did not overcome their addiction following repeated attempts at rehabilitation could be imprisoned, but would continue to receive treatment.
48. The focus on harm prevention, rather than reduction, had kept the drug situation under control: in 2014, less than 0.1 per cent of residents had been arrested for drug-related offences and only one case of HIV transmission through injection drug use had been recorded. Singaporeans, as well as residents from countries with more liberal drug policies, appreciated the safe environment provided for their children.
49. The 2016 special session of the General Assembly on the world drug problem would provide an opportunity for Member States to take stock of the progress made and to reaffirm their commitment to those efforts. It was important to respect the sovereign right of each State to decide how best to tackle its own drug problem, within the framework of the three international drug conventions. His country's experience
had demonstrated the value of efforts to combat the drug problem, and a drug-free world was an achievable goal.
50. Mr. Arreaga (United States) said that drug abuse affected people of every socioeconomic, ethnic and religious background. While it had been considered principally a criminal matter at the time of the revision of the 1961 Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, science had now demonstrated that substance abuse was primarily a public health challenge. It had also become clear that a comprehensive approach achieved the best outcomes for all those affected by drugs, and that the challenge of drugs could not be considered apart from societal factors. Criminal justice reforms required a comprehensive approach, as strong law enforcement without a fair, effective, humane and transparent criminal justice system would only be harmful. The incarceration of large numbers of addicts without providing a path to reintegration simply continued the cycle of drug abuse and violence.
51. Member States had a collective responsibility to implement effective drug control programmes and, consequently, should immediately adopt the Mandela Rules, which would incorporate the new knowledge that had been gained and benefit both prisoners and society at large. Additionally, the critical role of the existing drug conventions should be reaffirmed and their provisions implemented. Action must include a stronger public health approach to both existing threats, such as heroin, and emerging ones, including psychoactive substances. Member States should provide the Commission on Narcotic Drugs with all necessary support for the development of concrete operational objectives in preparation for the 2016 special session on the world drug problem. Member States should continue their efforts to reduce the impact of drugs, including by developing a common approach that reflected ageless truths about addiction while also acknowledging how much understanding had changed.
52. Ms. Nescher (Liechtenstein) said that crime prevention, criminal justice and international drug control were areas in which mismanagement, misapplication and misinterpretation of laws and policies could lead to conflicts and crises with devastating effects on the enjoyment of human rights. The present debate was even more relevant in light of the importance accorded to human rights and the rule of law in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Liechtenstein fully complied with international standards
15-17403
9/15
A/C.3/70/SR.5
on corruption and illicit financial flows and had an effective system in place to prevent and detect the transfer of the proceeds of those activities. A substantial part of its international cooperation and development assistance efforts were dedicated to capacity-building to combat corruption and return stolen assets. A thorough examination of how corrupt practices hindered the full enjoyment of human rights was warranted, and the recent inclusion of language condemning corruption at all levels in the annual resolution on preventing and combating corrupt practices amounted to recognition of how bribery undermined the ability of millions of individuals to enjoy their human rights and fundamental freedoms. However, all the resolutions under the agenda item on crime prevention and criminal justice focused excessively on technical aspects, which were better dealt with in other forums.
53. Drug-fuelled transnational organized crime led to grave human rights violations, reversed hard-won development progress and could even undermine the security of nations. The international community should therefore address the problem more vigorously and in full compliance with international human rights law. The 2016 special session on the world drug problem would provide an opportunity to develop a more balanced, comprehensive and evidence-based response. Drug policies at the national and international levels should be guided by common priorities such as health and welfare, socioeconomic and political stability and sustainable development. Furthermore, approaches should not be overly punitive, or lead to stigmatization or social exclusion of drug users, but should rather focus on prevention, harm reduction, treatment and social reintegration for drug users and the creation of alternative livelihoods for producers. The application of the death penalty for drug offences was a violation of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, as drug offences were not among the most serious crimes. Moreover, evidence continued to show that capital punishment was not a deterrent. Liechtenstein therefore reiterated its call for the universal abolition of the death penalty.
54. Her delegation encouraged all Member States to ratify and implement the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and its protocols and supported efforts to develop an appropriate and effective mechanism to review their implementation.
Her Government was fully committed to combating transnational organized crime and would continue to enhance its international cooperation in that regard.
55. Mr. Saito (Japan) said that crime prevention and criminal justice were essential to achieving economic and social development. His delegation therefore welcomed the fact that crime prevention and criminal justice had been integrated into in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development on the basis of the Doha Declaration adopted at the Thirteenth United Nations Congress on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice. Japan would host the fourteenth Congress in 2020 and was eager to play an even more active role in the area of crime prevention and criminal justice.
56. Member States must commit to implementation of the three international drug control conventions and the 2009 Political Declaration and Plan of Action. The problem of synthetic drugs such as methamphetamines and new psychoactive substances should be discussed at the upcoming special session on the world drug problem. His Government had already taken action in that regard and would continue to contribute its knowledge and experience to the global effort to combat the drug problem.
57. The prevention of transnational organized crime and terrorism, including money-laundering and the financing of terrorism, was another urgent subject. Japan was actively cooperating with UNODC and also appreciated the activities of the Financial Action Task Force. Member States had a shared responsibility to put an end to trafficking in persons and the smuggling of migrants by addressing the root causes of those activities. His country was in the process of implementing its 2014 action plan to combat trafficking in persons. The international community must also strengthen international cooperation and capacity building to combat cybercrime, making use of existing frameworks.
58. Mr. Qassem Agha (Syrian Arab Republic) said that his Government had endorsed the majority of the international conventions on the prevention of crime and trafficking in persons and had taken measures to protect trafficking victims. The Syrian Arab Republic was suffering from inhumane, terrorist crime as a result of the bloodthirsty, extremist Wahhabist ideology of dangerous criminal gangs, which were receiving weapons, funds, training and safe haven from a number of States whose identities were known to all. Those
10/15
15-17403
A/C.3/70/SR.5
groups were carrying out many forms of terrorist acts against civilians, including women and children. They were also targeting religious monuments and were attempting to destroy the cultural heritage of his country. For example, Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) had destroyed historic sites at Palmyra and had executed an antiquities expert.
59. Those States who were supporting the smuggling of mercenaries and terrorists across borders should comply with their international obligations under Security Council resolutions 1624 (2005), 2170 (2014), 2178 (2014) and 2199 (2015) by ensuring effective border controls and preventing the provision of financial support for those killers. Civilians who had fled self-styled jihadists in those countries were now becoming victims of organized gangs specializing in human trafficking and engaged in transnational crimes, such as human organ trafficking, in border areas. International reports had also revealed that Syrians, particularly women and children, living in refugee camps in the Middle East were at significant risk of being victims of crime and exploitation. His Government was working closely with UNODC and welcomed the support provided by the Office for its efforts to combat crime and terrorism.
60. Ms. Moreno Guerra (Cuba) said that all countries, regardless of their socioeconomic characteristics, were vulnerable to crime. No country was capable of fighting terrorism, drug trafficking, human trafficking, money-laundering or arms trafficking unaided. International cooperation based on respect for the sovereignty, domestic legislation and territorial integrity of States was essential to prevent and combat transnational organized crime effectively. Efforts to combat crime at all levels should go hand in hand with action to address underdevelopment and establish a more just, democratic and equitable world order. Her Government rejected any attempts to exaggerate such phenomena under the pretext that such crime affected regional or international peace and stability, when the intention was to impose national agendas and geopolitical interests. It was not within the purview of the Security Council to deal with those matters. Cuba attached great importance to the United Nations congresses on crime prevention and criminal justice, which promoted the exchange of information and good practices among States and professionals and made a positive contribution to crime prevention efforts and criminal justice at the international level.
61. Drug trafficking was the most significant form of transnational organized crime in terms of magnitude and social and human cost. Drug abuse and dependence threatened economic and social development in some countries by creating cycles of poverty, violence, crime and social exclusion, and should therefore be addressed in a comprehensive, balanced and multidisciplinary manner, with international cooperation playing a fundamental role. Drug abuse was also a public health concern that should be addressed through appropriate prevention, treatment, rehabilitation and social reintegration policies, which did not require any changes to the existing international legal framework.
62. The Commission on Narcotic Drugs had a central role in the preparations for the special session to be held in 2016, which would provide an opportunity to enhance the implementation of legal commitments and compliance with the international drug control conventions, as well as to share experiences, engage in inclusive discussion, recognize efforts that had been made and coordinate the next steps towards the implementation of the 2009 Political Declaration and Action Plan. Through the combined efforts of its public health, judicial, law enforcement and labour institutions, Cuba had developed effective programmes for preventing drug-related crimes. Her Government had met all its international obligations concerning collaboration in the fight against transnational organized crime and had an outstanding record in tackling major crimes such as terrorism, drug trafficking, money laundering, piracy and human trafficking, all of which were regulated and punishable under existing Cuban legislation. Cuba had acceded to the Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children, supplementing the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime in 2013, following which it had submitted annual reports and invited the Special Rapporteur on trafficking in persons, especially women and children to visit the country.
63. Her Government rejected as contrary to international law the practice of drafting unilateral lists of countries alleged to have committed violations related to transnational organized crime. It also condemned the United States Cuban Adjustment Act, which encouraged dangerous illegal migration and the trafficking of persons from Cuba to the United States and had already resulted in a large number of deaths. Her Government reiterated its unwavering commitment
15-17403
11/15
A/C.3/70/SR.5
to continue combating transnational organized crime and the world drug problem.
64. Mr. Sucharikul (Thailand) said that the links between drug trafficking, organized crime and corruption were becoming increasingly diverse, transnational and sophisticated, fuelling insecurity and instability around the world. His delegation welcomed the 2015 Doha Declaration, given the importance of a coordinated global effort to comprehensively address those issues, and the 2030 Agenda, which would address the root causes of drug trafficking and other crimes. Given that crime prevention, the rule of law, good governance and sustainable development were mutually reinforcing, Thailand particularly welcomed the inclusion of target 16.3 of the Sustainable Development Goals, which aimed to promote the rule of law at the national and international levels and ensure equal access to justice for all.
65. His delegation reaffirmed its commitment to sharing best practices in the implementation of alternative development, which was one of the best long-term, people-centred approaches to addressing the abject poverty and lack of opportunity that were a root cause of the drug problem. His country would host an international conference on alternative development in November 2015 in the hope that the concept would be mainstreamed into broader national development policies. The results of the conference should feed into the preparatory process for the special session on the world drug problem to be held in 2016.
66. Thailand supported the broad implementation of United Nations standards and norms on crime prevention and criminal justice. It had supplied the rapporteur for all four sessions of the expert group on the revision of the Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners and welcomed the consensus that had been reached. Thailand had also sponsored the draft resolution on the Mandela Rules, which had been adopted by the Economic and Social Council. His Government had benefited from the technical cooperation and capacity-building activities of UNODC and remained firmly committed to the global efforts in the areas of drug control, crime prevention and criminal justice.
67. Ms. Mansouri (Algeria) said that the challenges of the world drug problem, corruption, money laundering and terrorism required collective action by all Governments in coordination with relevant international organizations. Transnational crime needed
to be addressed in a comprehensive manner by strengthening law enforcement capacities and enhancing inter-agency cooperation. Information-sharing, capacitybuilding, mutual legal assistance and joint investigations remained key issues. Algeria would continue to cooperate closely with the International Narcotics Control Board.
68. In order to combat illicit drugs, priority should be given to strengthening national institutions targeting drug production and addressing the underlying socioeconomic factors. The special session of the General Assembly on the world drug problem should be an important step towards a full-scale review in 2019 of the implementation of the 2009 Political Declaration and Plan of Action on International Cooperation towards an Integrated and Balanced Strategy to Counter the World Drug Problem.
69. The Algerian Office for the Fight against Drugs and Drug Addiction continued to play a key role and was in the final stage of implementing a strategy for the period 2011 -2015 based on the three pillars of prevention, treatment and repression. Algeria fully supported implementation of the Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons. Lastly, she noted that the United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy would not be complete without the conclusion of a comprehensive convention on international terrorism.
70. Ms. Mukhametzyanova (Russian Federation) said that there been unprecedented growth in transnational organized crime. The international community must strengthen its cooperation to address such crime, with the United Nations playing a central, coordinated role. The cooperation must take a comprehensive and balanced approach based on compliance with the norms and principles of international law. In that regard, the Russian Federation called for more States to become party to the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and the Protocols thereto, and the United Nations Convention against Corruption. As regards a review mechanism for the implementation of the Convention against Transnational Organized Crime, the Russian Federation would prefer a step-by-step approach which took into account the experience with the equivalent mechanism of the Convention against Corruption. The Russian Federation would oppose any attempt to make such a mechanism intrusive or politicized.
71. The Russian Federation welcomed the expansion of the United Nations Voluntary Trust Fund for Victims
12/15
15-17403
A/C.3/70/SR.5
of Human Trafficking and believed that more attention should be paid to illegal trafficking in human organs. The UNODC system of funding should be qualitatively improved, including by increasing its share of funding from the United Nations regular budget. The Russian Federation also supported the creation, under the auspices of the United Nations, of a system-wide strategy to combat crime that would set clear priorities in response to the challenges and threats of organized crime, with support from the relevant bodies of the United Nations system, primarily the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice.
72. Improvements should be made to the international legal framework for cooperation in combating crime. Her delegation supported the development of a global convention on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters and an instrument on the protection of wildlife from criminal threats. The Russian Federation welcomed the results of the Thirteenth United Nations Congress on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice and considered the Doha Declaration an important document for future joint work in combating crime. Priorities should include action against trafficking in cultural artefacts, precious metals and wildlife.
73. The issues to be considered at the sixth session of the Conference of the States Parties to the United Nations Convention against Corruption, to be held in St. Petersburg in November 2015, would include a review of implementation of the Convention, prevention of corruption and the return of assets. A high level of political representation was expected.
74. It was important to protect and strengthen the international drug control system, in particular in the context of the special session of the General Assembly on the world drug problem in 2016. The Russian Federation opposed any attempt to alter the fundamental principles of the current system, including by imposing questionable methods such as harm reduction in the guise of international standards. The focus should be on a scientific approach to prevention and treatment, which was not compatible with legalizing drugs.
75. The Russian Federation supported the mobilization of global efforts to put an end to drug production in Afghanistan, as it represented a threat to international peace and stability. The situation was exacerbated by criminal activity linked to Afghan opiates and international terrorism, which received financing from drug revenues. It was important to continue efforts to
suppress the threat posed by the drug situation in Afghanistan, including through cooperation with UNODC and the Paris-Moscow process. Further attention should be given to the proliferation of synthetic drugs and the possibility of establishing a global system to monitor the trafficking of those substances. The Russian Federation was making a significant contribution to countering the dissemination of drugs, including through participation in various drug control initiatives in the context of the Collective Security Treaty Organization, the BRICS group, the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, the Eurasian Group on Combating Money-Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. The outcome of the second ministerial drug control conference, held in Moscow in May 2015, was an additional contribution to cooperation in that area.
76. Ms. Mwangi (Kenya) said that her country had developed legislative frameworks and strategies to monitor the administration of justice by the National Council on the Administration of Justice, the Judicial Service Commission, the National Police Service and the Independent Police Oversight Authority. Kenya had established an independent Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission and had formulated a national policy to create institutional links and harmonize strategies and efforts to combat corruption.
77. The Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions had established specialized divisions and developed guidelines to address transnational and emerging crimes. Kenya would continue to seek global and regional partnerships to ensure the efficient and effective conduct of specialized prosecutions. A regional Joint Investigation Centre facilitated the sharing of information on transnational crimes, and Kenya had also promulgated regulations to counter the financing of terrorism. The Kenyan Government had established mechanisms for cooperation between Kenyan and foreign national agencies to investigate and exchange information on suspected money laundering activities. Kenya presently chaired the regional law enforcement subgroup of the Eastern and Southern Africa Anti-Money Laundering Group.
78. Kenyan strategies to combat the inflow of illicit drugs from Asia destined for Europe had not been successful and the cooperation of the international community was required to find sustainable solutions to address drug trafficking and addiction. Kenya
15-17403
13/15
A/C.3/70/SR.5
continued to invest in regional mechanisms to stem the proliferation of small arms and light weapons in eastern Africa and called upon the international community to help in that regard. As regards human trafficking, comprehensive legislation was in place to improve measures for prevention and victim protection.
79. Ms. Rodriguez Pineda (Guatemala) said that policies based on prohibition had proved insufficient for tackling the world drug problem, and organized crime networks had moved beyond illicit drug trafficking to other criminal activities, causing violence, instability, corruption and human rights abuses. Furthermore, in Guatemala the financial requirements of prohibition policies reduced the capacity to address other social needs, thereby creating barriers to development and the strengthening of national institutions. Countries such as Guatemala took on a disproportionate share of the efforts against drug trafficking due to their location between the main producer countries and the main markets for consumption.
80. Achievement of the goals adopted in the 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda would require immense efforts from all Governments, and her country's current and future Governments would have to meet the growing expectations of the Guatemalan people. An integrated approach at all levels was required to combat organized crime and other illegal activities, such as money-laundering and arms trafficking. At the same time, it was important not to neglect judicial proportionality, alternatives to incarceration for minors and a focus on the most vulnerable sectors of society. The international community must coordinate its efforts through United Nations agencies and forums, share good practices and experiment with new ways to address crime.
81. The special session of the General Assembly planned for 2016 would present an opportunity to hear about the experiences and needs of all regions and improve their understanding of the world drug problem. Issues which must be addressed in the outcome document included commitment to implementing international drug control conventions, the need to put the well-being of individuals at the heart of drug policies, the adoption of human rights as a cross-cutting theme, the inclusion of academia and civil society as relevant stakeholders in the dialogue between governmental and non-governmental actors, the vision of a global drug policy that went beyond
supply and demand reduction and international cooperation, and the inclusion in the debate on global drug policy of additional international bodies, including the World Health Organization, the United Nations Development Programme and the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women.
82. Ms. Belskaya (Belarus) said that the 2030 Agenda provided a good basis for establishing the links between sustainable development, the rule of law and crime prevention. It was important to work out a unified approach and continue the efforts to counter trafficking in persons in order to achieve the Sustainable Development Goal on peace, justice and effective institutions. The Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons provided a basis for cooperation, and implementation of that Plan should be a priority for all partners. Compliance with the provision of General Assembly resolution 68/192 regarding the elaboration of a list of concrete measures planned for the period up to 2017 would be a practical contribution towards implementing the Global Plan of Action. An international seminar on comb ating trafficking in persons had been held in Belarus in July 2015 in connection with the World Day against Trafficking in Persons. Representatives from the law enforcement agencies of member States of the Group of Friends United against Human Trafficking had been in attendance. The main topics discussed had included action against trafficking in children for sexual and labour exploitation and child pornography on the Internet.
83. In view of the illicit production of opiates and the market for synthetic substances, in December 2014 Belarus had adopted a decree on urgent measures to counter illegal drug trafficking which prohibited practically all new psychoactive substances. The special session of the General Assembly on the world drug problem should give a new impetus to international cooperation in that area and lead to practical recommendations. Special attention should be paid to transit countries, which shouldered the burden of preventing drug trafficking between producer countries and consumer countries. The outcome document of the 2015 Sustainable Development Summit should reflect the relationship between sustainable development and crime prevention.
84. Mr. Al-Khaqani (Iraq) said that his country was at the forefront of efforts to combat transnational terrorism. ISIL had affected all Iraqis by committing
14/15
15-17403
A/C.3/70/SR.5
many human rights violations and destroying his country's archaeological heritage, among other crimes. Cooperation between nations was crucial to combating the problem. Corruption was another form of terrorism, as it created despair and a lack of trust in State institutions. In line with its commitment to the United Nations Convention against Corruption, Iraq had established an independent unit on integrity under the supervision of the parliament to help prevent and combat corruption and promote transparency in Government affairs. In cooperation with UNODC, Iraq had organized various training programmes for the personnel of the integrity unit in order to keep them up-to-date with the activities of the monitoring mechanism of the United Nations Convention against Corruption. A series of Governmental reforms included measures to combat corruption and revitalize the role of oversight institutions.
85. The most significant form of crime was terrorism, which threatened the peace and security of Iraqi citizens, impeded sustainable development and economic activity, and undermined good governance and the rule of law. Iraq reiterated its call for the international community to provide more support for its counterterrorism efforts.
86. Mr. Ugurluoglu (Turkey) said that efforts to combat transnational organized crime, the narcotics trade and human trafficking should be carried out through close cooperation among States and the relevant regional and international organizations, with a comprehensive and holistic approach. Universal adherence to and implementation of the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and the Protocols thereto, the United Nations Convention against Corruption, and the conventions and protocols against terrorism would contribute to global security and justice.
87. In view of the conflicts and humanitarian crises in its vicinity, Turkey had strengthened its border protection to combat human trafficking and the smuggling of migrants. Global efforts against human traffickers and migrant smugglers should be intensified. However, sustainable solutions to irregular migration would only be effective if the root causes were addressed. Turkey had become a safe refuge for over two million Syrians, including many women and girls, and had ensured that humanitarian assistance reached persons in need on the Syrian side of the Turkish border. More than 66,000 children had been born at
medical facilities in the container and tent cities in Turkey and more than 200,000 children had been enrolled in education.
88. The expansion of the global threat of terrorism both geographically and in terms of tactics was a matter of grave concern. ISIL was an overriding national security threat for Turkey, alongside groups such as the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and the Revolutionary People's Liberation Party-Front (DHKP-C). International solidarity, coherent action and cooperation were crucial to countering terrorism and Turkey supported international and regional efforts in that regard. In order to address the link between terrorism and transnational organized crime, Turkey played an active role in global and regional counter-narcotics initiatives. Turkey also contributed to capacity-building efforts in that field by providing training to the officials of other Governments and financial contributions for UNODC programmes. Eliminating violence against women and girls and protecting their human rights should be a priority. Lastly, the looting and illicit trafficking of cultural property had become urgent challenges and called for a coordinated and intensified international response.
The meeting rose at 1 p.m.
15-17403
15/15