United Nations
A/C.5/71/SR.37
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
Official Records
Distr.: General 30 June 2017
Original: English
Fifth Committee
Summary record of the 37th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Wednesday, 31 May 2017, at 12.25 p.m.
Chair: Ms. King (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines)
Contents
Agenda item 5: Election of the officers of the Main Committees
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Management Section (dms@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
17-08938 (E)
iiiiiiiiiiiiihiiiiiiiiii wwmwm
A/C.5/71/SR.37
The meeting was called to order at 12.25 p.m.
1. The Chair said that, said that, in accordance with rule 99 (a) of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the Committee would proceed with the election of the members of its Bureau for the seventy second session of the General Assembly.
2. The nomination of Mr. Tommo Monthe (Cameroon) for the office of Chair had been endorsed by the Group of African States. In the absence of further nominations, and in accordance with rule 103 of the rules of procedure, she would take it that the Committee wished to elect Mr. Tommo Monthe (Cameroon) Chair.
3. Mr. Tommo Monthe (Cameroon) was elected Chair by acclamation.
4. The Chair said that the nominations of Mr. Yazdani (Islamic Republic of Iran), Ms. Grinberga (Latvia) and Ms. Julie O'Brien (Ireland) for the three offices of Vice-Chair had been endorsed by the Group of Asia-Pacific States, the Group of Eastern European States and the Group of Western European and Other States, respectively.
5. Mr. Yazdani (Islamic Republic of Iran), Ms. Grinberga (Latvia) and Ms. Julie O 'Brien (Ireland) were elected Vice-Chairs by acclamation.
6. The Chair said that the nomination of Mr. Garda Landa (Mexico) for the office of Rapporteur had been endorsed by the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States.
7. Mr. Garc^a Landa (Mexico) was elected Rapporteur by acclamation.
The meeting rose at 12.30p.m.
2/2
17-08938