United Nations
A/C.5/69/SR.42
General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
Official Records
Distr.: General 16 July 2015
Original: English
Fifth Committee
Summary record of the 42nd meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Friday, 12 June 2015, at 3 p.m.
Chair: Mr. Ruzicka (Slovakia)
Chair of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions: Mr. Ruiz Massieu
Contents
Agenda item 160: Financing of the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali (continued)
Other matters
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Control Unit (srcorrections@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
15-09673 (E)
III III II11MWWWM
A/C.5/69/SR.42
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda item 160: Financing of the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali (continued) (A/C.5/69/L.45)
Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.45: Financing of the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali
Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.45 was adopted.
Other matters
1. Mr. Davidson (South Africa), speaking on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, said that the Group noted that the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda would complete its judicial activities by the end of 2015 and that any pending judicial cases or appeals would be transferred to the International Residual Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals. After December 2015 the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda would undertake administrative activities related to liquidation, including the transfer and disposal of assets, retention of institutional memory and expertise, and personnel issues, which were not part of the mandate of the International Residual Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals.
2. Consideration of the pending administrative and budgetary issues related to the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda should be handled under a separate agenda item on the financing of the Tribunal until its liquidation was complete. The Group would be unable to consider those issues under the financing of the International Residual Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals. It trusted that the Secretary-General would continue to present a separate budget under the Tribunal agenda item until the liquidation was complete so as to ensure transparency and accountability, especially with regard to the transfer of assets and personnel issues, and avoid any legal complications during the liquidation exercise.
3. Mr. Dosseh (Togo), speaking on behalf of the Group of African States, said that the Group was aware that the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda would enter a liquidation phase after December 2015 and strongly supported the presentation of a separate budget for the Tribunal to ensure transparency and accountability in the disposal of assets and to expedite the liquidation process by leveraging the experience and institutional memory of staff.
The meeting rose at 3.15 p.m.
2/2
15-09673