United Nations
A/C.5/72/SR.40
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
Official Records
Distr.: General 9 August 2018
Original: English
Fifth Committee
Summary record of the 40th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Tuesday, 15 May 2018, at 3 p.m.
Chair: Mr. Tommo Monthe (Cameroon)
Chair of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions: Mr. Ruiz Massieu
Contents
Agenda item 149: Administrative and budgetary aspects of the financing of the United Nations peacekeeping operations (continued)
Cross-cutting issues (continued)
Support account for peacekeeping operations
Agenda item 151: Financing of the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic
Agenda item 152: Financing of the United Nations Operation in Cote d'Ivoire
Agenda item 156: Financing of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti
Agenda item 161: Financing of the United Nations Mission in South Sudan
Agenda item 163: Financing of the African Union-United Nations Hybrid Operation in Darfur
Agenda item 165: Financing of the United Nations Mission for Justice Support in Haiti
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Management Section (dms@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
18-07879 (E)
I mill nil III IIMWMWV
A/C.5/72/SR.40
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.
Agenda item 149: Administrative and budgetary aspects of the financing of the United Nations peacekeeping operations (continued)
Cross-cutting issues (A/72/288, A/12/330
(Part II)), A/12/151, A/12/151/Corr.l, A/12/110,
A/12/189 and A/12/824)
1. Mr. Ahmed (Egypt), speaking on behalf of the Group of 11 and China, welcomed the recommendations contained in the report of the 2011 Working Group on Contingent-Owned Equipment (A/C.5/11/20), which were reflected in the 2011 edition of the Manual on Policies and Procedures concerning the Reimbursement and Control of Contingent-Owned Equipment of Troop/ Police Contributors Participating in Peacekeeping Missions (A/12/288). Although a number of important issues were still unresolved, the report was the outcome of extensive negotiations at the Military Adviser level.
2. The Group paid a tribute to all United Nations peacekeepers who had been wounded in the line of duty or who had made the ultimate sacrifice in the pursuit of peace. In that regard, the rates of compensation for death and disability, which had been last updated nearly a decade ago, needed to be reviewed in a timely manner, as emphasized by the General Assembly in successive resolutions.
3. Quick-impact projects built confidence in missions, their mandates, and political and peace processes, and contributed to force protection by generating support for the military and police components of missions, a matter of importance to troop- and police-contributing countries. In addition, although they accounted for a small share of mission budgets, programmatic activities were essential to advancing political processes and implementing peacekeeping mandates more generally. Indeed, the Security Council had, in recent years, increased the number of programmatic activities in peacekeeping missions with a view to preventing and resolving conflicts and building lasting peace. The Secretariat must continue to improve the effectiveness of programmatic activities, but must not use artificial criteria, such as distinctions between different types of programmatic activities, in the related governance arrangements.
4. The Group supported the Organization's zerotolerance policy on sexual exploitation and abuse, which must apply equally to all. It also welcomed the Secretary-General's commitment to ensuring that the Organization would not remain silent in the face of reported incidents, to adopting a victim-centred
approach and to establishing effective preventive policies to address the root causes of sexual exploitation and abuse. The Group looked forward to reviewing progress made in adopting a more unified, system-wide approach to combating such abuse. In that regard, it would seek further information on the mechanisms in place to address cases of sexual exploitation and abuse involving civilians and United Nations personnel working at Headquarters and in the field, including on how such mechanisms guaranteed the accountability of personnel found guilty of such acts.
5. While the report of the Secretary-General on special measures for protection from sexual exploitation and abuse (A/12/151 and A/12/151/Corr.1) addressed actions needed to handle cases of abuse, more concrete initiatives could have been undertaken to identify and mitigate the risk factors discussed by the SecretaryGeneral in his previous reports. The Group particularly looked forward to hearing how the Secretariat planned to address the risk factors emphasized by the General Assembly in resolutions 10/286 and 11/291, such as the rehatting of troops; the absence of predeployment training on standards of conduct; the excessive length of deployment for certain contingents; the living conditions of contingents, including lack of welfare and communication facilities to stay in contact with home; and camps being situated in proximity to and not properly separated from the local population. The Group commended the measures taken by many troopcontributing countries to address sexual exploitation and abuse and encouraged the Secretariat to facilitate the exchange of best practices among those countries and to strengthen the Organization's role in enhancing national capacities in that regard.
6. The Secretary-General must promote strict and full implementation of whistle-blower protection policies in order to empower staff to report misconduct, including in cases involving senior officials. Resolutions on cross-cutting issues were intended to provide overarching policy guidelines on issues relating to peacekeeping operations and should not be used as a means of pursuing arbitrary, across-the-board budget cuts.
1. Ms. Demetris (Observer for the European Union), speaking also on behalf of the candidate countries Albania, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Turkey; the stabilization and association process country Bosnia and Herzegovina; and, in addition, Georgia, the Republic of Moldova and Ukraine, said that the European Union attached great importance to United Nations peacekeeping operations - the Organization's flagship activity. Its member States were committed to ensuring that United Nations peacekeeping was as
2/14
18-07879
A/C.5/72/SR.40
effective as possible in the interest of maintaining peace and security, and they actively engaged in peacekeeping operations through financial contributions and the provision of troops, civilian police and other personnel. She commended the work of all United Nations peacekeeping personnel and paid a tribute to those who had lost their lives in the pursuit of peace.
8. Efforts to improve the effectiveness of peacekeeping operations should be anchored in the broader initiatives of the Secretary-General to reform internal management, the peace and security architecture, and the development system. Those reforms would enhance the impact of peacekeeping operations by reducing administrative red tape and increasing delegation of responsibilities to the field, while strengthening the accountability of managers for mandate fulfilment. The Committee had a critical but not exclusive role to play in ensuring the effective functioning of peacekeeping.
9. In reviewing the Secretary-General's overview report on the financing of peacekeeping operations (A/72/770), the Committee's goal must be to provide policy guidance and place trust in the Secretary-General instead of micromanaging. Peacekeeping operations should be managed with strict financial discipline and transparency. The ongoing mandated reform of peacekeeping should be reflected in the handling of the administrative and budgetary aspects of missions, which must take into account each mission's unique circumstances, in particular by ensuring the scalability of support functions. The European Union was open to using all available tools to ensure that budgets reflected the changing circumstances of peacekeeping missions but, in exchange, it expected the Organization to provide transparent information on how taxpayer money was spent and to be accountable for informing Member States of changes in budgetary assumptions in a timely and clear manner.
10. Uniformed personnel were vital to peacekeeping. The European Union commended troop-contributing countries for their commitment and attached great importance to the capabilities and performance of troops and to the provision of fully operational equipment, as agreed in the memorandums of understanding between troop contributors and the Secretariat. She recalled that troop-contributing countries and the United Nations had differing but complementary responsibilities in terms of training and the provision of medical support to uniformed personnel.
11. The European Union would closely examine all major cost drivers, stressing that categories of expenditure such as travel, transport, fuel, training,
information and communications technology (ICT), and the use of consultants should be budgeted with utmost care. The latest available technology should be used to improve the security and safety of troops and reduce the environmental footprint of missions. Indeed, unmanned aerial vehicles, radar and other surveillance equipment often saved lives. In that regard, she expressed concern about the increase in peacekeeper fatalities over the past year and welcomed the report on improving the security of United Nations peacekeepers prepared by the former Force Commander of two United Nations peacekeeping missions, Lieutenant General Carlos Alberto dos Santos Cruz, as well as the action plan developed by the Department of Peacekeeping Operations and the Department of Field Support to implement the recommendations contained in that report. The European Union stood ready to consider further ways to ensure that missions had the necessary capabilities to protect United Nations personnel.
12. The progress made in strengthening environmental management in peacekeeping was essential to ensuring the Organization's responsible and sustainable field presence. Initiatives such as the six-year environment strategy launched by the Secretariat in November 2016, as well as efforts to develop global environmental management systems and tools to improve the environmental performance of missions, were critical in that regard.
13. United Nations personnel must never harm those whom they were responsible for protecting. The European Union had consistently expressed its support for a zero-tolerance policy on sexual exploitation and abuse and, consequently, for a zero-impunity policy for all civilian, military and police personnel in United Nations and other international peace operations. It welcomed the progress made in implementing the zerotolerance policy and the new approach to preventing and responding to sexual exploitation and abuse launched by the Secretary-General in 2017. Over the past year, victims' rights advocate functions had been established at Headquarters and in the field, and new tools to enhance prevention, oversight and transparency had been developed. The European Union remained committed to working with partners, troop-contributing countries and other stakeholders on a long-term basis to ensure that prevention measures continued to be strengthened; allegations were duly investigated; personnel found guilty were brought to justice by their Governments; victims were provided with necessary assistance; and the Secretariat was optimally configured to address sexual exploitation and abuse in a coordinated manner, in line with the principle of delivering as one.
18-07879
3/14
A/C.5/72/SR.40
14. Peacekeepers played a critical role in ensuring respect for human rights and protecting vulnerable people in situations of armed conflict, in particular women and children. A gender perspective must be mainstreamed throughout peacekeeping work, including the early stages of operational planning, and reform of the peace and security architecture must include efforts to ensure the necessary gender expertise in Secretariat structures whose work was related to peacekeeping. The continued deployment of gender advisers and child protection advisers to assist mission staff, where required, was also essential, and cooperation between well-trained child protection focal points and civilian child protection advisers should be encouraged in order to ensure effective monitoring and reporting of violations. In addition, strengthening gender expertise in missions improved the overall effectiveness of peacekeeping by enhancing interaction with local communities.
15. During the lifespan of a mission and during the transfer of mission tasks to United Nations country teams, peacekeeping should be part of a broader political process and should be accompanied by measures designed to support peacebuilding and stability. Given the critical importance of cooperation between military and civilian personnel, missions and country teams should develop strong operational links and exchanges on the ground with a view to creating a continuum between peacekeeping, peacebuilding and development. While programmatic activities had a role to play in that regard, they should not overlap with the activities of country teams, and all funds spent by missions must be subject to the same standards of transparency and accountability. In that connection, quick-impact projects should serve their original purpose as confidence-building tools instead of being used to replace structural initiatives, and all activities related to civilian protection should be carried out in close coordination with country teams.
16. It was regrettable that, at the seventy-first session of the General Assembly, the Committee had not been able to reach an agreement on a draft resolution on cross-cutting issues relating to peacekeeping. The Committee must agree on such a draft resolution at the current session in order to advance the SecretaryGeneral's ambitious reform agenda.
17. Ms. Baumann (Switzerland), speaking also on behalf of Liechtenstein, expressed gratitude for the hard work done by all United Nations peacekeeping personnel and paid a tribute to those that had made the ultimate sacrifice in the pursuit of peace.
18. Prevention was the most effective - and least costly - way of addressing violent conflicts. In addition to saving lives and promoting social prosperity, investing in prevention and sustaining peace contributed to annual savings of between $5 billion and $70 billion for affected countries and the international community combined, according to the United Nations-World Bank joint study entitled “Pathways for Peace: Inclusive Approaches to Preventing Violent Conflict”. In that regard, she welcomed the Secretary-General's recommendations for a renewed focus on politics, prevention and mediation, as reflected in recent milestone reports and in the proposed reforms of the peace and security pillar.
19. Programmatic activities should be expanded and integrated more systematically in peacekeeping operations. In that regard, the Secretary-General should ensure the effectiveness and coherence of policies relating to such activities in order to enhance their impact. The two delegations also welcomed the Secretary-General's proposals to strengthen environmental management in peacekeeping operations and supported full compliance with the “do no harm” principle advocated under the long-term environmental strategy established for all field missions.
20. The high number of allegations of sexual exploitation and abuse in field missions, as well as the recurrence of the most egregious forms of such abuse, were matters of great concern. While the SecretaryGeneral had made important progress in combating sexual exploitation and abuse, more needed to be done, particularly in the areas of prevention, accountability, investigation and prosecution of perpetrators, and victim support. The two delegations shared the concern expressed by the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions with regard to the lack of a truly system-wide approach to addressing sexual exploitation and abuse and the need for action to be taken through the United Nations System Chief Executives Board for Coordination to ensure consistency and coherence in that regard. They also urged the Secretary-General to establish a common platform and mechanisms for ensuring that all databases and offices shared the same information regarding personnel with a history of sexual exploitation and abuse in a timely manner.
21. Ms. Norman-Chalet (United States of America) said that the consideration of cross-cutting issues was timely and important, as Member State guidance on such issues improved the effectiveness, efficiency and accountability of peacekeeping operations. While peacekeeping operations were essential to maintaining international peace and security, the resources allocated
4/14
18-07879
A/C.5/72/SR.40
for such operations must be used responsibly and produce the intended results. The focus on new developments, policy changes and management challenges reflected in the Secretary-General's overview report (A/72/770) would enhance strategic decision-making and Member State guidance with regard to peacekeeping.
22. Reform of the peace and security pillar and internal management would strengthen implementation of peacekeeping mandates. In that connection, her delegation welcomed the Secretary-General's efforts to enhance peacekeeper performance, strengthen mission leadership and leverage modern technology to enhance mandate fulfilment. The design and deployment of United Nations peacekeeping operations should be guided by the objective of achieving political solutions, and her delegation agreed with the Advisory Committee that changes to mission structures should result in improvements in the fulfilment of mandates. When missions were not achieving core tasks or advancing political solutions, their composition and mandates should be re-evaluated. In that regard, the United States supported institutionalizing a culture of performance in United Nations peacekeeping by generating required capabilities, identifying and enforcing performance and conduct standards, improving assessment tools and metrics, and holding underperformers accountable.
23. She welcomed the Secretary-General's efforts to promote a system-wide approach to combating sexual exploitation and abuse, including through the appointment of the Special Coordinator on Improving the United Nations Response to Sexual Exploitation and Abuse. Despite the progress achieved, more needed to be done, in particular in the case of acts of sexual exploitation and abuse committed by civilian staff. United Nations agencies, funds and programmes must increase transparency in that regard and step up their prevention efforts by properly screening staff and monitoring all implementing partners. In line with the Secretary-General's victim-centred approach and the work of the Victims' Rights Advocate, the Organization must conduct a mapping exercise to identify victims' assistance services available system-wide and must establish clear lines of responsibility among United Nations country team members in order to ensure timely provision of support to victims. Her delegation would work constructively to achieve consensus on a draft resolution on cross-cutting issues.
24. Mr. Feldman (Brazil) paid a tribute to United Nations peacekeepers who had been killed or wounded in the line of duty.
25. The Secretary-General's reform agenda would enable the Organization to take a more holistic and integrated approach to conflict prevention, crisis management and sustaining peace. Brazil had long supported the primacy of politics in the work of the United Nations to advance peace and security and shared the Secretary-General's assessment regarding the imbalance in the resources allocated to managing and preventing crises, which limited the Organization's capacity to fulfil its peacekeeping mandates. His delegation also endorsed the six priorities outlined in the overview report (A/72/770), in particular the goal of supporting effective political engagement, promoting integrated solutions and strengthening conflict analysis.
26. Over the past decade, the mandates of peacekeeping operations had become increasingly multidimensional in nature as a result of the growing complexity of the political environments in which they were deployed. Consequently, programmatic activities in a broad range of areas including gender affairs, the rule of law, security sector reform, community violence reduction, and disarmament, demobilization and reintegration had been required to fulfil peacekeeping mandates and promote political progress. In line with its traditionally balanced stance on the issue, the Advisory Committee did not recommend any adjustments to the proposed resources for programmatic activities. However, the distinction between different types of programmatic activities, referred to in its report on cross-cutting issues related to peacekeeping operations (A/72/789), was artificial and unhelpful. The fact that some programmatic activities had been included in mission budgets for longer than others merely indicated the ability of peacekeeping mandates to evolve in line with changing circumstances on the ground. Furthermore, the fact that the Fifth Committee did not approve the budgets of the United Nations funds, programmes and specialized agencies meant that it would likely be unable to analyze the comparative advantages of such entities relative to peacekeeping operations in carrying out programmatic activities. Programmatic activities were directly related to the strategic objectives of peacekeeping missions, as set out in Security Council mandates, and it was not the place of the Advisory Committee, the Fifth Committee or the Secretariat to determine which mandated activities would be carried out.
27. In addition to enhancing mandate implementation in complex operating environments, quick-impact projects strengthened force protection and prevented fatalities by fostering good will between police and troops and the local population, in keeping with the Secretary-General's emphasis on improving the security
18-07879
5/14
A/C.5/72/SR.40
of United Nations peacekeepers. Peacekeeping missions should be assessed on an ongoing basis to ensure that they were fit for purpose and had clearly defined exit strategies, in accordance with Security Council mandates.
28. Ms. Hazanovitz (Israel) said that the adoption of a draft resolution on cross-cutting issues was more critical than ever, in view of the need for missions to enhance the protection of United Nations peacekeepers and adopt new approaches to address emerging challenges, as highlighted in the Santos Cruz report; the importance of standardizing medical care in peacekeeping missions to better protect and preserve the lives of peacekeepers in the face of increasing security challenges; the need for new technologies and innovative solutions in order to promote effective and efficient mandate implementation; the goal of reducing the environmental footprint of peacekeeping operations in the light of the threats posed by climate change, including to international peace and security; the importance of addressing sexual exploitation and abuse, which harmed populations that the United Nations was responsible for protecting and posed a reputational risk to the Organization; the aim of increasing the participation of women in peacekeeping; and the Organization's moral obligation to put an end to sexual harassment and assault in the field, which compromised the work and integrity of peacekeeping missions and harmed women in particular.
29. Her delegation welcomed the Secretary-General's efforts to improve medical support to peacekeeping missions and looked forward to hearing more about the implementation of the newly developed casualty evacuation policy based on the 10-1-2 casualty response principle, whereby patients were guaranteed access to skilled first aid within 10 minutes of injury or the onset of symptoms; to advanced life support as soon as possible and no later than 60 minutes after injury or the onset of symptoms; and to limb - and life-saving surgery no later than 2 hours after injury or the onset of symptoms. Her delegation would also seek further details on the implementation of health-care quality and patient safety standards in facilities at all three levels of the medical support system for peacekeeping operations and on the promulgation of standard operating procedures for casualty evacuation.
30. Preventing sexual exploitation and abuse and sexual harassment in the workplace was a critical step towards strengthening mandate implementation and increasing women's representation in peacekeeping operations. In that connection, her delegation supported the efforts made to implement the Organization's zerotolerance policy on sexual exploitation and abuse; the
work of the Victims' Rights Advocate and the Special Coordinator on Improving the United Nations Response to Sexual Exploitation and Abuse; the gradual introduction of community-based reporting of incidents of sexual exploitation and abuse; and the development of mandatory training for peacekeeping troops in matters relating to sexual exploitation and abuse and sexual harassment. The Committee should demonstrate its political support for those initiatives in the draft resolution on cross-cutting issues to be considered at the current session. Efforts should also be made to address sexual harassment within United Nations peacekeeping missions specifically, given the nature of work in the field and the composition of, and gender ratios within, most missions.
Support account for peacekeeping operations
(A/72/701, A/72/701/Add.1, A/72/766,
A/72/790/Rev.1, A/72/814 and A/72/857)
31. Ms. Bartsiotas (Controller), introducing the report of the Secretary-General on the budget performance of the support account for peacekeeping operations for the period from 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2017 (A/72/701 and A/72/701/Add.1), said that funding from the support account was available to 14 offices and departments throughout the Secretariat that provided backstopping support for approximately 140,000 military, police and civilian personnel in 14 missions worldwide. In 2016/17, the Secretariat had supported the strengthening of the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali (MINUSMA) and the United Nations Mission in South Sudan (UNMISS); guided the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic (MINUSCA) in protecting civilians and promoting political dialogue in the Central African Republic; assisted the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUSCO) in supporting the implementation of the Peace, Security and Cooperation Framework for the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the Region, and in promoting political dialogue, protecting civilians and facilitating voter registration; guided the ongoing transition and drawdown of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti (MINUSTAH) and the United Nations Mission in Liberia (UNMIL); and supported the restructuring of the United Nations Office to the African Union to reflect the Organization's strategic partnership with the African Union.
32. The Secretariat had also strengthened responsiveness by streamlining procedures in areas such as delegation of authority, human resource management
6/14
18-07879
A/C.5/72/SR.40
and procurement. In addition, it had contributed to the development of a new and strengthened whistle-blower policy; and to the implementation of the Umoja enterprise resource planning system, mobility and career development initiatives, the global service delivery model, and initiatives to address sexual exploitation and abuse within the United Nations system. The Secretariat had also established an International Public Sector Accounting Standardscompliant fixed asset management framework, in addition to promulgating policy and developing certification procedures for, and training materials related to, property management. Moreover, it had improved the quality of medical care in peacekeeping operations, having fully implemented the EarthMed electronic medical records management system in the field. The expenditure for the support account had been $327.1 million, representing an implementation rate of 99.9 per cent.
33. Introducing the proposed budget for the support account for peacekeeping operations for the period from 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019 (A/72/790/Rev.1), she said that the budget proposal reflected the impact on the support account of the proposed reform initiatives of the Secretary-General, including peace and security reform, management reform and the global service delivery model. For the period from 1 July to 31 December 2018, the proposal reflected requirements for the departments and offices included in the support account under the Secretariat's current organizational structure, while for the period from 1 January 2019 to 30 June 2019, it reflected the proposed revised structure of the Secretariat. The presentation of the resource requirements for 2018/19 was in line with the proposed implementation of the reform initiatives as at 1 January 2019 and reflected a consistent and detailed overview of the human and financial resource requirements for backstopping support for peacekeeping operations for the period before and after the implementation of the proposed reforms. Pursuant to General Assembly resolution 71/295, the presentation of the report (A/72/790/Rev.1) reflected a more streamlined, strategic and analytical approach, as well as the increased use of tables and graphics.
34. The proposed budget for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2018 reflected initiatives to strengthen the Organization's capacity to investigate sexual harassment allegations and manage cases of sexual exploitation and abuse, as well as efforts to achieve gender parity, protect human rights, ensure occupational safety and health, and improve the management evaluation process. The proposed net decrease of one
post in the support account staffing establishment reflected reprioritization of resources.
35. During the period from 1 January 2019 to 30 June 2019, following the implementation of the proposed reform initiatives, 22 posts and 2 general temporary positions in the new Department of Management Strategy, Policy and Compliance and Department of Operational Support would be abolished, as a result of the establishment of the global shared service centres; and 6 posts would be eliminated from the Department of Operational Support and re-established in six large and complex peacekeeping missions on 1 January 2019, in order to support increased delegation of authority to field missions. For the first time, resources for the Peacebuilding Support Office had been included in the proposed budget for the support account, and, as at 1 January 2019, three posts would be moved from the Department of Peacekeeping Operations to the Peacebuilding Support Office under the new Department of Political and Peacebuilding Affairs.
36. The proposed resource requirements for the support account represented approximately 4.4 per cent of the projected aggregate resources for peacekeeping operations for the 2018/19 period, and the financial resources required for core activities under the support account for the 2018/19 period were estimated at $296.7 million, a net decrease of approximately $2.3 million compared with the approved resources for the 2017/18 period. A comprehensive review of the support account had been undertaken, the results of which were presented in the relevant report of the Secretary-General (A/72/814).
37. The total proposed budget for the support account for 2018/19, taking into account requirements for the implementation of organizational initiatives approved by the General Assembly and additional new requirements for the provision of centralized backstopping support, amounted to $354.8 million, representing an increase of $29 million compared with the approved resources for 2017/18. The budget proposal for the support account reflected increased requirements in the amount of approximately $31.4 million relating to the implementation of Umoja, the supply chain management project, information system and security initiatives, the global service delivery model and the establishment of the global shared service centres, as well as provisions for reimbursement for equipment for units registered in the Peacekeeping Capability Readiness System, as endorsed by the General Assembly in its resolution 71/296.
38. The proposed budget for the support account remained within the approved level of resources.
18-07879
7/14
A/C.5/72/SR.40
Information regarding the impact on the support account of the changes in peacekeeping operations' share of the cost of enterprise-wide initiatives had been included in the report (A/72/790/Rev.1) in order to accurately reflect the true cost of supporting peacekeeping operations in complex operating environments.
39. The Chair drew attention to the report of the Independent Audit Advisory Committee on the proposed budget of the Office of Internal Oversight Services under the support account for peacekeeping operations for the period from 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019 (A/72/766).
40. Mr. Ruiz Massieu (Chair of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions), introducing the report of the Advisory Committee on budget performance for the period from 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2017, financing for the period from 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2018 and the proposed budget for the period from 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019 of the support account for peacekeeping operations (A/72/857), said that the Advisory Committee's recommendations would entail a reduction of $26.4 million in the post and non-post resource requirements proposed under the support account for the 2018/19 period, including approximately $13.1 million related to the proposed requirements for the implementation of Umoja in the field and approximately $9.9 million related to the requirements for the operationalization of the global shared service centres. He had been informed that the requirements related to the global shared service centres had been revised since the issuance of the Secretary-General's report (A/72/790/Rev.1) and that the updated information would be provided for the consideration of the General Assembly.
41. Given that the Secretary-General's management reform proposals and their implications for the support account required separate and distinct consideration, the Advisory Committee was not in a position to evaluate the implications of those reforms for the post- and non-post-related resource requirements under the support account. As the Advisory Committee nevertheless recognized the need for support-accountfunded posts and activities during the 2018/19 period, it recommended approval of a support account budget reflecting the requirements for a 12-month period for the departments and offices included in the support account under the Secretariat's current organizational structure.
42. The General Assembly had repeatedly emphasized that the level of the support account should correspond to the number and size of peacekeeping operations. The Advisory Committee noted the absence of a scalability
model, detailed proposals and a conclusion in the recently finalized comprehensive review of the support account (A/72/814). Noting that the comprehensive review merited separate consideration, the Advisory Committee would revert to it at a later date, particularly in view of the Secretary-General's intention to submit a proposal to the Assembly relating to the support account for its consideration at its seventy-fourth session.
43. With regard to the proposed resource requirements for departments and offices under the existing organizational structure, the Advisory Committee recommended against the conversion of a number of positions to posts, given its views regarding scalability and the nature of the support account. It recommended approval of the continuation of 62 general temporary assistance positions and a 5 per cent reduction in nonpost requirements.
44. The Advisory Committee made observations regarding the workload and functional capacity of the Peacekeeping Financing Division of the Office of Programme Planning, Budgets and Accounts, and of the Field Budget and Finance Division of the Department of Field Support, and recommended approval of the conversion of two positions to posts in the Office of Programme Planning, Budget and Accounts. The Advisory Committee also made a number of recommendations regarding the resource requirements for the Office of Internal Oversight Services, noting in particular the need for further clarification regarding the resources available for investigating sexual harassment allegations.
45. Mr. Ismail (Egypt), speaking on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, said that, as a key financial contributor and the largest collective contributor of troops and police personnel to peacekeeping operations, the majority of which were currently hosted by its members, the Group believed that adequate backstopping support must be provided to enable the effective and efficient implementation of increasingly complex peacekeeping mandates. Notwithstanding the new demands placed on field and Headquarters personnel and the peacekeeping support structure as a result of the changing nature of peacekeeping operations, the level of the support account should broadly correspond to the size and complexity of operations. In that regard, the Group noted the absence of detailed proposals in the report on the comprehensive review of the support account (A/72/814) and would seek further information on how the comprehensive review had affected the proposed budget for the support account for the 2018/19 period.
8/14
18-07879
A/C.5/72/SR.40
46. The budget proposal for the support account already reflected the Secretary-General's proposed reform initiatives, which had not yet been fully considered by the Fifth Committee. The Advisory Committee had therefore assessed the resource requirements for the support account on the basis of the annualization of the first six-month segment of the budget proposal. The Group would seek further clarification on the relationship between the reform initiatives and the support account, as well as on the timing of the Committee's consideration of the topic of the support account at the current session. The Group would also carefully analyse the resources requested to ensure that they were relevant to the support needs of staff and of troop and police contingents on the ground, and would scrutinize the proposals for the establishment, abolishment, reclassification, reassignment, and redeployment of posts, which were intended to realign the capacity of the support account in force generation, environmental responsibility, medical support, staff safety, human rights, democracy, governance and the prevention of sexual exploitation and abuse.
47. The Group remained concerned about the high cost of the global field support strategy, Umoja and other supply chain management improvements, which had had no discernible impact on the level of resources requested under the support account. It would seek further information on the efficiencies and economies of scale that were expected to result from those initiatives, noting that the requirements for Umoja, in the amount of $28.8 million, were 15 per cent higher than the 2017/18 provision. The Group also remained concerned at the inadequate representation of troop-contributing countries in the peacekeeping support structure in the field and at Headquarters, especially at senior levels, despite the Assembly's repeated requests to the Secretary-General to improve their representation. It would seek updates on measures taken to that end.
Agenda item 151: Financing of the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic (A/72/637, A/72/779 and A/72/789/Add.8)
Agenda item 152: Financing of the United Nations Operation in Cote d'Ivoire (A/72/655 and A/72/852)
Agenda item 156: Financing of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti (A/72/689 and A/72/853)
Agenda item 161: Financing of the United Nations Mission in South Sudan (A/72/624, A/72/789/Add.15, A/72/792, A/72/802 and A/72/854)
Agenda item 163: Financing of the African UnionUnited Nations Hybrid Operation in Darfur
(A/72/687, A/72/789/Add.7 and A/72/794)
Agenda item 165: Financing of the United Nations Mission for Justice Support in Haiti
(A/72/789/Add. 12 and A/72/793)
48. Ms. Costa (Director, Peacekeeping Financing Division), introducing the budget performance report for the period from 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2017 (A/72/637) and the proposed budget for the period from 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019 (A/72/779) for MINUSCA, said that the proposed budget for 2018/19 was $945.5 million, an increase of 7.1 per cent compared with the approved resources for 2017/18. That difference was attributable to the increase in troop strength mandated by the Security Council in its resolution 2387 (2017) and increased requirements for civilian personnel. Through its overarching political strategy, the Mission would carry out core peacekeeping activities with a focus on protecting civilians; providing good offices and support to the peace process, including national reconciliation, social cohesion and transitional justice; facilitating the creation of a secure environment for the immediate, full, safe and unhindered delivery of humanitarian assistance; and protecting the United Nations.
49. Introducing the budget performance report for the period from 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2017 (A/72/655) for the United Nations Operation in Cote d'Ivoire (UNOCI), she said that, by its resolution 2284 (2016), the Security Council had extended the Operation's mandate for a final period until 30 June 2017. During the 2016/17 period, UNOCI had incurred $166.6 million in expenditure, representing an implementation rate of 96.9 per cent. The reduced resource requirements for the Operation were attributable to the earlier-than-planned repatriation of all uniformed personnel, mission downsizing and the separation of civilian staff, as well as to lower-than-planned demand for aviation and ground support, and for ICT and facilities maintenance services. Those reductions were partially offset by higher-than-planned payments to staff members at the time of separation from service. After 30 June 2017, the residual activities related to the closure of UNOCI had been handed over to the Regional Service Centre in Entebbe and to United Nations Headquarters. During the 2017/18 period, dedicated teams continued to carry out liquidation activities, including the identification of uncovered liabilities, the finalization of staff separations and the preparation of final financial statements for the Operation.
18-07879
9/14
A/C.5/72/SR.40
50. Introducing the budget performance report for the period from 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2017 (A/72/689) for MINUSTAH and the proposed budget for the period from 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019 (A/72/793) for the United Nations Mission for Justice Support in Haiti (MINUJUSTH), she said that, by its resolution 2350 (2017), the Security Council had decided to close MINUSTAH by 15 October 2017 and to establish a follow-on peacekeeping mission, MINUJUSTH. During the 2016/17 period, MINUSTAH had incurred $337.8 million in expenditure, representing an implementation rate of 97.7 per cent. The reduced requirements for MINUSTAH were primarily attributable to higher-than-average vacancy rates and the ongoing drawdown in preparation for the closure of the Mission. MINUSTAH was currently undergoing liquidation.
51. The proposed budget for MINUJUSTH for 2018/19 amounted to $124.4 million, representing an increase of 41.2 per cent compared with the approved budget for the 8.5-month period from 16 October 2017 to 30 June 2018. The increased requirements were primarily attributable to the inclusion of a provision for 12 months in the proposed budget for 2018/19, compared with the inclusion of a provision for 8.5 months in the approved budget for 2017/18, and to the proposed establishment of 23 new posts and positions.
52. Pursuant to Security Council resolution 2350 (2017), the Secretary-General had submitted a report (S/2018/241) to the Council setting out a projected twoyear exit strategy to a non-peacekeeping United Nations presence in Haiti, which included 11 clearly defined benchmarks developed in collaboration with the United Nations country team and the Government of Haiti and had been harmonized with national efforts to implement the 2030 Agenda. The proposed budget for MINUJUSTH reflected the Mission's continued collaboration with the country team in line with the exit strategy.
53. Introducing the budget performance report for UNMISS for the period from 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2017 (A/72/624), the note by the Secretary-General on the financing arrangements for the period from 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2018 (A/72/792), and the proposed budget for UNMISS for the period from 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019 (A/72/802), she said that the SecretaryGeneral proposed additional resources in the amount of $65.2 million for the 2017/18 period related to the deployment of additional military personnel and to increased requirements for civilian personnel. The proposed budget of $1,154.7 million for 2018/19 reflected increased requirements for military and
civilian personnel, as well as for rations for military contingents. By its resolution 2406 (2018), the Security Council had decided to extend the Mission's mandate until 15 March 2019; to maintain the authorized troop strength at 17,000 military personnel, which included a Regional Protection Force; and to maintain the authorized police strength at 2,101 personnel. The conflict in South Sudan had become increasingly complex, and the armed conflict had spread across the country, particularly to those areas where relative stability had previously prevailed. UNMISS would continue to focus on its key priorities, in particular the protection of civilians, including the more than 220,000 internally displaced persons temporarily housed in protection of civilian sites operated by the Mission. The Mission would also continue to create conditions that were conducive to the delivery of humanitarian assistance, to monitor and investigate abuses and violations of human rights, and to support the implementation of the Agreement on the Resolution of the Conflict in the Republic of South Sudan.
54. Introducing the budget performance report for the African Union-United Nations Hybrid Operation in Darfur (UNAMID) for the period from 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2017 (A/72/687) and the proposed budget for UNAMID for the period from 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019 (A/72/794), she said that the proposed budget of $782.6 million represented a decrease of 14.1 per cent compared with the approved budget for 2017/18. That reduction reflected the impact of the repatriation of military and police personnel during the 2017/18 period, in line with the reconfiguration of the Operation pursuant to Security Council resolution 2363 (2017). UNAMID would continue to focus on military protection, the clearance of explosive remnants of war, and emergency relief in the Jebel Mara area. In other areas of Darfur where fighting had not recently taken place, the Operation would focus on stabilizing the situation, supporting the police and strengthening rule of law institutions while continuing to protect civilians, mediating intercommunal conflict and assisting in the implementation of the Doha Document for Peace in Darfur. As part of its strategy to reduce its carbon footprint and minimize dependency on fossil fuels as a primary source of power generation, the Operation would expand its environmental efforts and add a second solar electrical system at its headquarters in El Fasher, with a view to installing similar systems in other locations in subsequent budget periods.
55. Mr. Ruiz Massieu (Chair of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions), introducing the Advisory Committee's report on MINUSCA (A/72/789/Add.8), said that the
10/14
18-07879
A/C.5/72/SR.40
Advisory Committee's recommendations would entail a reduction of approximately $1.3 million in the proposed budget for 2018/19. The Advisory Committee recommended against the proposed conversion of 39 civilian personnel positions to posts, pending the outcome of an upcoming strategic review of the Mission, to be followed by a possible civilian staffing review. Under operational costs, the Advisory Committee recommended reductions under facilities and infrastructure and ground transportation, taking into account past expenditure patterns. With regard to the 2017/18 period, the Advisory Committee concurred with the request submitted by the Controller in a letter dated 8 March 2018 for authorization to enter into commitments in an amount not exceeding $20.2 million gross, in order to meet the requirements for an additional 900 military personnel, as mandated by the Security Council in its resolution 2387 (2017).
56. Introducing the Advisory Committee's report on UNOCI (A/72/852), he said that the Advisory Committee noted the budget implementation rate of 96.9 per cent for the Operation for the 2016/17 period and recommended that the unencumbered balance of $5.4 million for the 2016/17 period, as well as other revenue and adjustments for the period in the amount of $16.6 million, should be credited to Member States in full and without delay.
57. The Advisory Committee noted the progress made in ensuring sound environmental management during the handover of mission sites in preparation for the completion of the Operation's mandate on 30 April 2017. It trusted that all future sites to be closed would be handed over in compliance with guidance issued by the Department of Peacekeeping Operations and the Department of Field Support with respect to environmental and waste management; the Liquidation Manual, which was currently being revised by those Departments; and relevant local laws and practices. The Advisory Committee also trusted that accurate financial information on the disposal of UNOCI assets would be provided to the General Assembly at the time of its consideration of the Secretary-General's forthcoming report on the subject.
58. Introducing the Advisory Committee's report on MINUSTAH (A/72/853), he noted that, under certain budget lines, actual expenditures during the 2016/17 period had diverged significantly from the level of the approved budget. The Advisory Committee recommended that the Secretariat should provide a more realistic budgeting methodology for future missions undergoing drawdown and liquidation, drawing on lessons learned from the experiences of UNMIL and UNOCI. The Advisory Committee expected that those
lessons would be included in the revised Liquidation Manual. In addition, the Advisory Committee recommended that the unencumbered balance, as well as other revenue and adjustments, for the 2016/17 period should be credited to Member States in full and without delay. It also expected that updated information on potential outstanding liabilities from MINUSTAH would be provided to the General Assembly at the time of its consideration of the Secretary-General's final performance report.
59. Introducing the Advisory Committee's report on the financing arrangements for the UNMISS for the period from 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2018 (A/72/854), he said that the Advisory Committee recommended approval of the additional resources requested for the 2017/18 period for the deployment of additional military contingents in order to provide a secure environment in the Juba area.
60. Introducing the Advisory Committee's report on the budget performance of UNMISS from 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2017 and proposed budget for UNMISS for the period from 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019 (A/72/789/Add.15), he said that the Advisory Committee's recommendations would entail a reduction of $6.2 million in the proposed budget for 2018/19, reflecting a small reduction in the proposed resources for rations for formed police units; the abolishment of two long-vacant posts; and reductions under official travel, facilities and infrastructure, and ground transportation. The Advisory Committee noted that, in some instances, significant underexpenditure had been recorded for the 2016/17 and 2017/18 periods. It also noted the Mission's efforts to reduce its environmental footprint, including initiatives relating to solid and hazardous waste management and the commencement of the construction of two solar farms, and encouraged UNMISS to continue its activities in that regard.
61. Introducing the Advisory Committee's report on UNAMID (A/72/789/Add.7), he said that the Advisory Committee's recommendations would entail a reduction of $11.2 million in the proposed budget for 2018/19. Under operational costs, the Advisory Committee had made some recommendations with regard to official travel; other supplies, services and equipment; consultants and consulting services; and facilities and infrastructure. With regard to ground transportation, the Advisory Committee noted that, in the preparation of the budgets for some peacekeeping missions, an adjustment was applied to the estimated cost of petrol, oil and lubricants to reflect the time that vehicles were off-road or were not operational. The Advisory Committee expected that information regarding such adjustments would be provided to the General Assembly. In addition,
18-07879
11/14
A/C.5/72/SR.40
the Advisory Committee concurred with the Board of Auditors that constant guidance and support from Headquarters were required during the downsizing and reconfiguration of the Operation, taking into account the potential impact of adjustments to the mission concept and mission plan resulting from the ongoing joint African Union-United Nations strategic review of UNAMID.
62. Introducing the Advisory Committee's report on MINUJUSTH (A/72/789/Add.12), he said that the Advisory Committee's recommendations would entail a reduction of $457,900 in the proposed budget for 2018/19. Specifically, the Advisory Committee recommended the application of a vacancy rate of 11 per cent for National Professional Officers and 5 per cent for national General Service staff and recommended against the establishment of a number of national General Service posts, including in the Strategic Communications and Public Information Section, the Model Jurisdiction Section, the Human Resources Unit, the Finance and Budget Unit, and the Centralized Warehousing and Distribution Unit. It also recommended a 10 per cent reduction in the proposed requirements for consultants. In addition, the Advisory Committee trusted that the General Assembly would be provided with detailed information with respect to the financial impact of Security Council resolution 2410 (2018). The Advisory Committee also expected that an early assessment of the practical application of the mobile team concept, whereby the Mission's civilian presence was concentrated in two existing premises located in Port-au-Prince and a substantive civilian component travelled to each region in Haiti at least twice a month, would be provided in the SecretaryGeneral's first performance report for MINUJUSTH.
63. Mr. Funes Henri'quez (El Salvador), speaking on behalf of the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States (CELAC), said that the Community reaffirmed its solidarity with Haiti and recognized the importance of international efforts to support the country's national priorities. CELAC supported the mandate of MINUJUSTH to assist the Government of Haiti in supporting the development of the Haitian National Police; strengthening the country's rule of law institutions, including the justice and correctional sectors; and advancing the promotion and protection of human rights, including through monitoring, reporting and analysis.
64. MINUJUSTH must be provided with adequate resources to fulfill its mandate. CELAC was concerned about some of the reductions in the proposed budget for the Mission recommended by the Advisory Committee, in particular its objection to the establishment of new
posts relating to areas of the Mission's work in which the Secretary-General had identified weaknesses. The Community would engage actively in consultations on the matter in order to gain a better understanding of the challenges that the Mission might face as a result of the proposed reductions.
65. Adequate resources must be allocated to programmatic activities, community violence reduction programmes and quick-impact projects. In that regard, CELAC welcomed the Secretary-General's explanations of how the resources proposed for the implementation of each of those types of activities would support MINUJUSTH in fulfilling its mandate.
66. CELAC rejected arbitrary reductions in the Mission's resources without technical justification. The budget of MINUJUSTH, like those of other peacekeeping and special political missions, should be based on the situation on the ground and the related Security Council mandates, rather than on artificial budget ceilings. He urged all Member States to continue to support reconstruction, stabilization and development efforts in Haiti.
67. Ms. Sweeb (Suriname), speaking on behalf of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), said that CARICOM was committed to supporting international efforts to place the people of Haiti on a path towards sustainable peace, stability and development. In that regard, it acknowledged the efforts of the United Nations to improve the situation in Haiti, as evidenced by the success of MINUSTAH, and welcomed the extension of the mandate of MINUJUSTH until 15 April 2019 under Security Council resolution 2410 (2018).
68. The budget implementation rate of 97.7 per cent for MINUSTAH for the 2016/17 period indicated that good faith efforts were being undertaken to provide necessary relief to Haiti. CARICOM welcomed the Secretary-General's commitment to addressing areas in which the performance of MINUSTAH had been unsatisfactory, including by implementing policies on the removal and disposal of hazardous materials and maintaining appropriate records of expired drugs and their disposal. The Board of Auditors had nevertheless noted that, of the 1,772 official trips taken by MINUSTAH personnel during the 2016/17 period, 1,407 had not complied with the requirement to finalize all official travel arrangements 16 calendar days in advance of travel. The Board had also noted that, in the case of 45 per cent of the non-compliant trips, no justification for the delayed finalization of travel arrangements had been provided. The Group expected that, under MINUJUSTH, Mission personnel would
12/14
18-07879
A/C.5/72/SR.40
respect the advance booking stipulation and the requirement to justify any deviations from that policy.
69. The resource requirements for MINUJUSTH for 2018/19 were in line with the Mission's objectives of bolstering national capacities, in particular those of the Haitian National Police and rule of law institutions, and of strengthening human rights monitoring, reporting and analysis. In that regard, community projects, including community violence reduction programmes, and quickimpact projects designed to improve infrastructure and provide equipment to local police, court and prison facilities, were critical to the achievement of long-term peace and security in Haiti, which, in turn, were indispensable to development.
70. The budget of MINUJUSTH, like those of other peacekeeping and special political missions, should be based on the situation on the ground and the related Security Council mandates. CARICOM rejected arbitrary reductions in the Mission's resources without technical justification, as they undermined the gains achieved by MINUSTAH. The Community was therefore concerned at the Advisory Committee's objection to the establishment of new posts within MINUJUSTH that had been proposed to strengthen the executive direction and management, political and rule of law, and support components of the Mission's work. She encouraged Member States to engage with the Government and people of Haiti to ensure the consolidation and irreversibility of the progress achieved.
71. Mr. Velazquez Castillo (Mexico) said that MINUJUSTH reflected the commitment of the United Nations to supporting the Government of Haiti in its efforts to strengthen institutional capacities and create the necessary conditions for lasting peace. The continued engagement of the Government of Haiti and the international community would play a critical role in the fulfilment of the Mission's challenging mandate.
72. The support of the United Nations was essential for coordinating initiatives to build a better future for Haiti and promote the country's sustainable development. In that connection, close collaboration and harmonization, including with regard to resources, between MINUJUSTH and the agencies included in the 2017-2021 United Nations Development Assistance Framework for Haiti, would be indispensable in supporting the country's efforts to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals. MINUJUSTH had a particularly important role to play in promoting the cross-cutting implementation of Sustainable Development Goal 16 on the promotion of just, peaceful and inclusive societies. As it had previously done under
MINUSTAH, the United Nations continued to demonstrate, through MINUJUSTH, its ability to effectively coordinate peace, humanitarian assistance and development initiatives in the field.
73. As in the case of MINUSTAH, Mexico would continue to provide police personnel to MINUJUSTH and to be an active member of the Ad Hoc Advisory Group on Haiti established by the Economic and Social Council, in addition to engaging in regional, subregional and bilateral cooperation with Haiti. He called on the Committee to allocate the necessary resources for MINUJUSTH, in line with the Secretary-General's proposals.
74. Ms. Vasquez (Chile) said that United Nations support and the commitment of the Government of Haiti had been critical to the progress achieved during the previous 13 years under MINUSTAH. Her delegation supported the Secretary-General's request for resources to carry out the Organization's peacekeeping agenda in Haiti.
75. The link between security and development as a means of achieving sustainable peace remained fundamental. MINUJUSTH must draw on the lessons learned from MINUSTAH, including the importance of continuing programmatic activities and quick-impact projects, which supported the mandate of MINUJUSTH to strengthen the rule of law and consolidate peace, taking into account the situation on the ground, with a view to avoiding security gaps. In order to preserve the gains of MINUSTAH through an effective transition to MINUJUSTH, the Committee must ensure the predictable, flexible and efficient provision of resources.
76. Mr. Mohammed (Sudan) noted with satisfaction the gradual decrease in the number of UNAMID personnel following the implementation of the first two phases of reductions of positions and posts authorized by the Security Council in its resolution 2363 (2017) in the light of the steady improvement of the situation in Darfur and the positive results of the Government's arms collection campaign. To date, neither UNAMID nor the authorities of the Government of the Sudan had observed any negative consequences as a result of the restructuring of the Operation. The favourable developments in the Sudan attested to the success of the Government's efforts to restore peace and stability following the implementation of the Doha Document for Peace in Darfur, and to improve the situation of internally displaced persons. The Government had also opened several humanitarian corridors in response to the humanitarian crisis in South Sudan and was hosting large numbers of refugees from that country. In addition,
18-07879
13/14
A/C.5/72/SR.40
the Government continued to observe its unilateral ceasefire, which had been extended multiple times since its declaration in 2017, most recently until 30 June 2018.
77. The budget for UNAMID for 2018/19 should be re-evaluated in the light of the shift in the Operation's focus from peacekeeping to peacebuilding. The savings realized should not undermine the priorities of advancing post-conflict reconstruction in Darfur, providing environmental support for affected communities and reducing the environmental footprint of UNAMID. The Advisory Committee had repeatedly noted the slow progress made in reducing the Operation's environmental impact, in particular in implementing solar energy generation initiatives, which remained in the planning stages. Efforts in that regard were particularly critical in view of the impact on Darfur of the drought in the Sahel region. UNAMID must step up its efforts during the final stages of the peacebuilding phase in order to ensure a smooth handover to the United Nations country team.
78. His Government would continue its efforts to achieve peace and development by focusing on preventive diplomacy and sustaining peace. It would also focus on consolidating peace and addressing the root causes of conflict, a significant challenge that would require concerted effort at national, regional and international levels. Lastly, until the complete withdrawal of UNAMID from the country, the Government of the Sudan would continue to cooperate with the United Nations, the African Union and other partners in advancing peace, protecting civilians and promoting development.
The meeting rose at 5 p.m.
14/14
18-07879