United Nations
A/C.5/53/SR.9
General Assembly
Fifty-third session
Official Records
Distr.: General 29 October 1998
Original: English
Fifth Committee
Summary record of the 9th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Friday, 16 October 1998, at 3 p.m.
Chairman: Mr. Abelian (Armenia)
Chairman of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions: Mr. Mselle
Contents
Agenda item 118: Scale of assessments for the apportionment of the expenses of the United Nations (continued)
This record is subject to correction. Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned within one week of the date ofpublication to the Chief of the Official Records Editing Section, room DC2-750, 2 United Nations Plaza, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session, in a separate corrigendum for each Committee.
98-81681 (E)
A/C.5/53/SR.9
The meeting was called to order at 3 p.m.
Agenda item 118: Scale of assessments for the apportionment of the expenses of the United Nations
(continued) (A/C.5/53/23 and 24)
1. The Chairman recalled that at its 7th meeting the Committee had decided to defer its consideration of the request submitted by Bosnia and Herzegovina, in a letter contained in document A/C.5/53/23, for temporary exemption from the application of Article 19 of the Charter pending receipt of a similar request from the Congo. The latter request had now appeared as document A/C.5/53/24.
2. Ms. Topic (Bosnia and Herzegovina) said that her delegation suggested that the question should be taken up in informal consultations.
3. Mr. Gotienne (Congo) said that 15 October had marked the first anniversary of the end of a war which had totally destroyed the Congo's banking and other administrative structures. The Congo had always been assiduous in the payment of its assessed contributions to the United Nations but had been forced to submit a request for temporary exemption from the application of Article 19 because of the country's exceptional current difficulties. His delegation agreed with the suggestion of Bosnia and Herzegovina that the question should be taken up in informal negotiations but hoped that the Committee would respond favourably to the request in the very near future.
4. Mr. Schlesinger (Austria), speaking on behalf of the European Union, said that the European Union fully agreed with the suggestion made by the representative of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It appreciated the flexibility shown by Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Congo and looked forward to the earliest possible discussion of the matter.
5. Mr. Watanabe (Japan) said that his delegation also supported the suggestion.
6. Mrs. Powles (New Zealand) said that her delegation supported the requests of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Congo and agreed that they should both be taken up in informal consultations.
7. Mr. Zhang Wanhai (China) said that his delegation had stated its views on the question at the Committee's 7th meeting. It now agreed to take it up in informal consultations.
8. Mr. Mirmohammad (Islamic Republic of Iran) said that his delegation had hoped that the Committee would act on the requests of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Congo in the same way as it had recently dealt with similar requests.
It could nevertheless agree to consider the matter in informal consultations.
9. Mr. Herrera (Mexico) said that his delegation was grateful to Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Congo for their flexibility. It considered that all requests for exemption from the application of Article 19 should be considered case by case and in accordance with the rules of procedure but could agree to the suggestion for informal consultations.
10. Mr. Medina (Morocco) said that his delegation was also grateful to Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Congo for their flexibility. It reiterated its support for both requests.
11. Ms. Buergo-Rodriguez (Cuba) said that her delegation had expected the Committee to take decisions on the two requests in line with its decisions on the requests of GuineaBissau and Georgia. However, it could accept the suggestion to discuss the matter informally and hoped that the Committee would deal with the requests promptly on the basis of equal treatment for all Member States.
12. Mr. Kabir (Bangladesh) said that his delegation also welcomed the flexibility shown by Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Congo. It hoped that the issue would be taken up in informal consultations as soon as possible.
13. Mr. Darwish (Egypt) said that his delegation also endorsed the suggestion for informal consultations, which appeared to be acceptable to the Committee. The kind of goodwill shown by Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Congo always helped the Committee in its work.
14. Mr. Sial (Pakistan) said that his delegation had stated its position at the Committee's 7th meeting when it had supported the request of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the basis of equal treatment for all Member States. It approached the request of the Congo in the same spirit. It would have liked the Committee to settle the matter at the current meeting and hoped that the informal consultations would produce decisions very quickly.
15. Mr. Daka (Zambia) said that his delegation supported the two requests and looked forward to discussing them in the informal consultations.
16. Mr. Armitage (Australia) said that his delegation was also grateful to Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Congo for their flexibility. The informal consultations ought to provide the Committee with an opportunity to restore some of the procedural regularity needed in the consideration of the issue. Without prejudice to the two requests before the Committee, his delegation felt that the issue had broader implications since it involved a provision of the Charter. In the informal negotiations the Committee should explore ways of ensuring that in future the provision was given its intended effect.
2
A/C.5/53/SR.9
17. Mr. Elmontaser (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) said that like some other delegations his delegation had expected the Committee to deal with the two requests in the same way as it had dealt with the earlier requests. It had no problem with the suggestion of Bosnia and Herzegovina for informal consultations as supported by the Congo. It thanked the two delegations for their flexibility, which it hoped would be matched by similar flexibility in the informal negotiations.
18. Mr. Lozinski (Russian Federation) said that his delegation was grateful to Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Congo for their flexibility and could agree to discuss the issue in informal consultations.
19. Ms. Shearouse (United States of America) said that the United States was also grateful to the two delegations for their flexibility on the question of informal consultations. However, the most appropriate forum for consideration of the issue was the Committee on Contributions, and her delegation hoped that the requests would be passed on to that Committee so that the Fifth Committee could have the benefit of its views.
20. Mr. Bay (Singapore) said that his delegation took a sympathetic view of the difficulties of Member States legitimately seeking exemption from the application of Article 19 and thought that the existing procedures for presenting such requests were adequate. It hoped that all aspects of the issue would be considered in the informal negotiations.
21. Mr. Saha (India) said that his delegation was grateful to Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Congo for their flexibility. The important thing was to ensure equal treatment for all Member States. His delegation could agree to informal consultations, which it hoped would produce positive decisions in the light of the great difficulties experienced by the countries concerned.
22. Mr. Jaremczuk (Poland) said that his delegation's position was identical to the one stated by the representative of Austria on behalf of the European Union.
23. Mr. Al-Malek (United Arab Emirates) said that his delegation thanked Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Congo for agreeing to discuss their requests in informal consultations. It supported both requests for exemption on the basis of equal treatment for all Member States.
24. Mr. Abdullah (Bahrain) said that he had stated his delegation's position on the request of Bosnia and Herzegovina at the Committee's 7th meeting. In the same spirit it supported the request of the Congo and thanked both delegations for their flexible attitude.
25. The Chairman said he took it that the Committee wished to hold informal consultations as soon as possible with a view to reaching agreement on the decisions to be
recommended to the General Assembly on the requests submitted by Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Congo.
26. It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 3.30p.m.
3