United Nations
A/C.5/69/SR.26
General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
Official Records
Distr.: General 26 December 2014
Original: English
Fifth Committee
Summary record of the 26th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Tuesday, 23 December 2014, at 3 p.m.
Chair: Mr. Ruzicka (Slovakia)
Chair of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions: Mr. Ruiz Massieu
Contents
Agenda item 137: Human resources management (continued)
Agenda item 131: Review of the efficiency of the administrative and financial functioning of the United Nations (continued)
Proposed programme budget outline for the biennium 2016-2017 (continued)
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Control Unit (srcorrections@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
14-67870 (E)
111 1 HI III IN llllllllllllllllllll
Please recycle
A/C.5/69/SR.26
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.
Agenda item 137: Human resources management
(continued) (A/C.5/69/L.9)
Draft decision A/C.5/69/L.9: Human resources management
1. Mr. Chumakov (Russian Federation), introducing the draft decision, said that it concerned one aspect of human resources management that unfortunately had not been included in the Secretary-General's reports on human resources management. In 2004, the SecretaryGeneral had undertaken to determine the personal status of staff members by reference to the law of nationality of the staff member concerned. That undertaking, which was enshrined in General Assembly resolution 58/285 and which had been discussed at the Committee's 39th meeting at the fifty-eighth session (A/C.5/58/SR.39), constituted the legal basis for determining the personal status of staff members. The matter had not been considered by the Assembly subsequently and no further instructions had been given to the Secretary-General in that connection.
2. In 2014, however, the Secretary-General had decided to review the conditions of service relating to the determination of personal status of staff members without seeking the necessary agreement through the intergovernmental process. The new policy entailed not only an additional financial burden but also complications arising from issues of marriage, divorce and adoption.
3. The Russian Federation considered that changes in human resources management policy, particularly those that had financial implications, and the determination of conditions of service were the prerogative of the General Assembly, as was defining the framework for the system of administration of justice. Consideration of the proposed changes to the conditions of service should take place through the established procedures.
4. The Chair said that action would be taken on the draft decision at a subsequent meeting.
Agenda item 131: Review of the efficiency of the administrative and financial functioning of the United Nations (continued)
Proposed programme budget outline for the biennium 2016-2017 (continued) (A/C.5/69/L.10)
Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.10: Proposed programme budget outline for the biennium 2016-2017
5. Ms. Rios Requena (Plurinational State of Bolivia), introducing the draft resolution on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, said that establishing the budget outline was one of the Committee's principal responsibilities, as the outline was the basis for the preparation of the proposed programme budget. The Group was concerned that the budget cuts reflected in the proposed budget outline would undermine the work of the United Nations and hinder the implementation of decisions still to be adopted concerning the post-2015 development agenda. The draft resolution would ensure that the Committee fulfilled its obligation to provide preliminary estimates for the programme budget for the biennium 2016-2017 without prejudging the outcome of the Assembly's deliberations in 2015.
6. Ms. Biagiotti (Italy), speaking on behalf of the States members of the European Union, said that, while she acknowledged that the Committee had regrettably had little time to discuss the proposed programme budget outline, it was nevertheless disappointing that a draft resolution on the matter had been introduced by one group of States. Such a step was inappropriate in a Committee that traditionally worked by consensus.
7. Mr. Ono (Japan) said that he shared the concern expressed by the representative of Italy. The experience that had led to the adoption of General Assembly resolution 41/213 showed the importance of making every effort to reach final agreement by consensus, including on the budget outline. All delegations should engage in the effort to reach consensus on that important agenda item.
8. Mr. Levinson (United States of America) said that his delegation was prepared to reach an agreement on the budget outline by consensus. The introduction of a draft resolution was not, however, conducive to achieving consensus.
9. Mr. Dosseh (Togo), speaking on behalf of the Group of African States and Mr. Chumakov (Russian Federation) said that the delegations for which they spoke were prepared to work constructively in the deliberations on all items currently before the Committee.
10. Mr. Guilherme de Aguiar Patriota (Brazil) said that his delegation supported the introduction of the draft resolution. The programme budget outline was
2/3
14-67870
A/C.5/69/SR.26
only a preliminary estimate of the resources needed to implement the proposed programme activities for the biennium and as such had no financial implications. While reaching an agreement by consensus was a laudable aim, it required that all parties should be willing to move forward.
11. The Chair said that action would be taken on the draft resolution at a subsequent meeting.
The meeting rose at 3.25 p.m.
14-67870
3/3