United Nations
A/C.5/69/SR.39
General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
Official Records
Distr.: General 16 June 2015
Original: English
Fifth Committee
Summary record of the 39th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Thursday, 14 May 2015, at 10 a.m.
Chair: Ms. Mukashyaka (Vice-Chair) (Rwanda)
Chair of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions: Mr. Ruiz Massieu
Contents
Agenda item 134: Improving the financial situation of the United Nations (continued)
Agenda item 148: Administrative and budgetary aspects of the financing of the United Nations peacekeeping operations (continued)
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Control Unit (srcorrections@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
15-07686 (E)
in in ii iirnwmwv
Please recycle
A/C.5/69/SR.39
In the absence of Mr. Ruzicka (Slovakia),
Ms. Mukashyaka (Rwanda), Vice-Chair, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 134: Improving the financial situation of the United Nations (continued) (A/69/520/Add. 1 and A/69/520/Add. 1/Corr.1)
1. Mr. Takasu (Under-Secretary-General for Management) said that since 30 April 2015 a total of $26.6 million had been received for the regular budget from l0 Member States; for peacekeeping operations, $34.0 million had been received from 22 Member States; for the international tribunals, $1.2 million had been received from six Member States; and for the capital master plan, full payment had been received from one Member State. Accordingly, under the regular budget 86 Member States had paid in full; all peacekeeping assessments due had been paid by 31 Member States; for the international tribunals, 61 Member States had paid in full; while 181 Member States had paid in full for the capital master plan. Payments received after 6 May 2015 meant that 27 Member States had paid their assessments in full for all categories.
2. As at 30 April 2015 the level of the Working Capital Fund had been $127 million, reflecting the temporary use of $23 million from the Fund authorized by the Assembly to bridge cash flow needs for the capital master plan. The transfers to finance the final shortfall relating to associated costs under the capital master plan would be effected later in 2015, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 69/274.
3. As at 30 April 2015 the level of the Special Account had been $235 million, reflecting the General Assembly's decision in its resolution 68/245 to use $26.6 million from the Special Account to finance the 2012-2013 regular budget. By its resolution 69/274, the Assembly had also decided to use $36.6 million from the Special Account to finance the final shortfall under the capital master plan, which would reduce the level of the Special Account to $198.4 million.
4. Also as at 30 April 2015, the unpaid peacekeeping assessments of $1.966 billion had included $430 million outstanding in respect of closed missions.
5. Mr. Davidson (South Africa), speaking on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, said that the Group was concerned about the withholding of financial obligations
to the Organization aimed at creating linkages to reform of the United Nations. Withholding funds for approved budgets created artificial political leverage that undermined the principle of governance of the United Nations on the basis of the sovereign equality of Member States.
6. While financial indicators were generally sound, the improvements of recent months were overshadowed by indications that significant amounts were still owed to the Organization and that it had a long way to go before it could receive a clean bill of financial health. The Group was concerned that unpaid assessments for the regular budget and peacekeeping operations were higher than in October 2014, but recognized that not all Member States had national financial cycles aligned with that of the United Nations. It was also perturbed that outstanding payments to Member States relating to troop costs and contingent-owned equipment were higher. While appreciative of the Secretariat's efforts to reduce the amounts, he noted that many troop contributors were developing countries and were not in a position to sustain their troop commitments and maintain their equipment on their own for extended periods of time.
7. The Group noted the growing importance attached to peace and security, resulting in substantial increases in peacekeeping budgets. However, the other responsibilities of the United Nations and activities mandated by the General Assembly were equally important and should receive equal funding.
8. The Group recognized the need for financial stability for the Organization to function effectively and to fully implement its mandates and activities, and reaffirmed its legal obligations in accordance with the Charter. While acknowledging the need to extend sympathetic understanding to those temporarily unable to meet their financial obligations as a consequence of economic difficulties, the Group urged all Member States to pay their assessed contributions in full, on time and without conditions. He expressed the Group's appreciation to those Member States that had reduced their outstanding contributions, and sought reassurance that the implementation of programmes and activities under the regular budget would not be delayed or scaled down due to non-payment of assessed contributions.
9. Mr. Presutti (Observer for the European Union), speaking also on behalf of the candidate countries
2/9
15-07686
A/C.5/69/SR.39
Albania, Montenegro, Serbia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Turkey; the stabilization and association process country Bosnia and Herzegovina; and, in addition, Armenia and Georgia, said that it was vital for all parties, Member States and Secretariat, to take their partnership seriously in terms of providing and utilizing funding in a responsible manner.
10. He welcomed the fact that as at 30 April 2015 the number of Member States that had paid their assessments to the regular budget in full had increased from the previous year, but noted with concern that to date only 31 States had paid all peacekeeping assessments. It was imperative to spend more wisely, to deliver in new ways, and to ensure that the Organization lived within agreed budget levels in all its activities, from peacekeeping, to construction, to the regular budget. An unceasing effort to find new and creative ways to work was essential to achieve more effective delivery of mandates and sustainable use of resources.
11. Mr. Quinn (Canada), speaking also on behalf of Australia and New Zealand, said that the amount owed to Member States in respect of peacekeeping, while projected to decrease by the end of the year, was too high. Timely payments for troops, formed police units, and contingent-owned equipment, as well as for letters of assist and death and disability claims, would always depend on Member States' meeting their financial obligations to the United Nations in full and on time.
12. The consequences of unpaid assessed contributions were clear: troop - and police- contributing countries were left waiting for the reimbursement of the costs they had incurred, which impacted negatively on their motivation to contribute personnel and material assets to future peacekeeping operations. It also resulted in inequity between those Member States which had paid their assessed contributions in full and on time and those which had not.
13. Unpaid assessed contributions had a significant adverse impact on the cash flow of the Organization. As at 30 April 2015, more than $1.5 billion in regular budget contributions had been outstanding. The Working Capital Fund had been established to provide advances needed to fund budgetary appropriations pending the receipt of contributions, but could function properly only if contributions were paid on time and in full. Vigilance must be exercised in use of the Fund.
14. The three delegations would continue to demonstrate their commitment to the United Nations by paying their dues in full, on time and without conditions: all Member States should do the same. The Organization had a mechanism in place to assist Member States in addressing their fiscal arrears: all Member States concerned should make use of that mechanism and submit multi-year payment plans.
15. While it was important to provide the Organization with the resources it needed, it was also important to identify areas where savings could be made, to refine processes, and to exhaust all options in managing the resources provided efficiently and effectively in order to improve the financial situation.
16. Mr. Guo Xuejun (China) said that his delegation hoped that Member States would work collectively to ensure that the Organization's financial situation was sound so as to provide a firm foundation for the implementation of all mandates. The upcoming seventieth anniversary of the United Nations would see a series of events intended to promote the Organization's role in safeguarding international peace and security and global development, rendering sound finances and management even more important.
17. Noting the levels of unpaid assessments for peacekeeping and the regular budget, he called on all Member States to meet their obligations under the Charter and pay their assessed contributions in full, on time, and without conditions. Countries possessing the requisite resources, in particular developed countries with larger assessments, should pay their outstanding amounts without delay. His delegation was sympathetic to countries facing economic difficulties and supported the continued application of Article 19 to Member States facing circumstances beyond their control.
18. The General Assembly should ensure timely reimbursement of troop- and police-contributing countries. The amounts owed - $779 million at the end of 2014, $663 million at the end of March 2015, and a projected total of $561 million by end-2015 - were regrettable. He hoped that the Secretariat would convey a positive signal to troop - and police-contributing countries in the interest of the long-term development of peacekeeping.
19. His Government was a staunch supporter of the United Nations. As the sixth largest contributor, China had already paid its assessed contributions for the regular budget, peacekeeping and the two tribunals in
15-07686
3/9
A/C.5/69/SR.39
full, and by the end of 2014 had paid part of its next peacekeeping assessment in advance, in the hope that that would help to improve the Organization's financial situation. The Secretariat must improve its administrative and budgetary management to ensure that every cent paid by Member States was put to good use.
20. Mr. Golitsyn (Ukraine) said that, notwithstanding the security challenges and economic difficulties it faced, Ukraine consistently met its obligations under the Organization's budgets, and was paying in full all its current assessments. Virtually all its outstanding peacekeeping contributions related to closed missions. Although the General Assembly, in its decision 49/470, had considered Ukraine's 1995 arrears as being due to conditions beyond its control, as a responsible Member State Ukraine had regularly paid considerable amounts to reduce those arrears. By the beginning of 2012 it had reduced its arrears to the budgets of closed peacekeeping operations by some $4.2 million.
21. Mr. Akamatsu (Japan) said that his Government, notwithstanding the fact that its budget cycle did not align with that of the Organization, had paid in full and on time all its assessments in all categories, in recognition that it was a responsibility of Member States to do so. Japan had once again fulfilled its international commitment to international peace and prosperity despite its long-standing domestic financial difficulties and the recent trend in exchange rates.
22. He noted with appreciation the Secretariat's efforts to utilize resources efficiently and effectively, and expected it to closely monitor the regular budget cash position and keep the General Assembly informed. The resources contributed by Member States must be utilized in the most efficient and effective manner when implementing mandates. The Secretariat could draw on the experience of Member States in their own national administration. The Assembly should aim for reasonable and practical solutions when discussing budget proposals.
23. Mr. Sanchez Azcuy (Cuba) said that financial stability was critical to the Organization's ability to discharge its mandates in full and on time. Without a firm and stable financial foundation, the United Nations would simply be unable to fulfil the purposes for which it had been established. Even though payment of assessments without conditions was a Charter requirement, repeated failure on the part of
Member States to do so had created a financial situation that was far from ideal.
24. His delegation was concerned by recent decisions by the Assembly concerning use of the Working Capital Fund and the Special Account, which had led to significant reductions in the level of resources. Member States should respect the resolutions of the General Assembly and the Financial Regulations and Rules - and long-standing practice - governing their use.
25. Member States should spare no effort to ensure the financial stability of the Organization. His delegation acknowledged the efforts made by many countries to fully discharge their financial obligations, especially developing countries, which, despite their difficult economic circumstances, continued to demonstrate their commitment to the United Nations. Such circumstances must be taken into account, particularly when they prevented States from honouring their obligations even though they possessed the political will to do so.
26. He called for more effective and efficient administration of the financial resources made available to the Organization by Member States, particularly at a time when they were adopting austerity measures at home. Accountability, transparency and the capacity to achieve results were essential indicators.
27. His delegation was concerned by the financing of peacekeeping operations, given their increased number and scope. The permanent members of the Security Council should assume greater financial responsibility, commensurate with their special responsibility for international peace and security. In particular, the practice of cross-borrowing from the accounts of closed missions to fund active missions was disquieting. That practice should be discontinued, and balances on closed accounts returned to Member States, in accordance with the Financial Regulations and Rules. States that paid their assessments in full and on time should not be penalized owing to the failure of other States to pay.
28. Also of concern was the long-standing delay in reimbursing States contributing troops, police and equipment. It was ironic that contributors, many of them developing countries, were effectively funding operations under their national budgets. Prompt reimbursement would do much to alleviate their financial burdens. The Secretariat should make every
4/9
15-07686
A/C.5/69/SR.39
effort possible to ensure that full and timely reimbursement was made.
29. Despite the shackles imposed by the United States genocidal economic, commercial and financial embargo, Cuba maintained its commitment to multilateralism, evidenced not only by its active participation in the work of the United Nations, but also by the political will to discharge its financial obligations. In the first quarter of 2015 it had paid its regular budget contribution, and made significant payments to peacekeeping budgets, with additional payments about to be made in the weeks ahead.
30. His Government acknowledged the recent unfreezing of its contributions to the Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the United States Treasury Department, despite which, however, the embargo was still in place. Cuba was prohibited from using the United States dollar, including for its payments to international organizations, exposing it to exchange rate fluctuations that had a negative effect on its capacity to pay.
31. The embargo - a unilateral policy of economic, commercial and financial aggression - constituted the principal obstacle to Cuba's economic development. The extraterritorial nature of the embargo violated the norms and principles of international law and the Charter of the United Nations. The General Assembly had called for the lifting of the embargo on 23 consecutive occasions.
32. His delegation welcomed the willingness of President Obama to engage with Congress with a view to ending the embargo. However, in the view of his Government the President might make more extensive use of his executive authority and do more in pursuance of that policy.
33. His delegation reiterated its determination to honour its financial obligations to the United Nations, in the conviction that an improvement in the Organization's financial situation depended on the political will of its Member States.
34. Mr. Takasu (Under-Secretary-General for Management) said that the financial health of the Organization was positive and that the seventieth anniversary was on a solid financial basis.
35. He acknowledged the legitimate concerns expressed in the Committee. The negotiation of budgets
by Member States was a very important political process, following which the Secretariat carried out all the activities funded, in anticipation that Member States would pay the amounts approved in the budget. However, a problem arose if payments were not made at the approved level.
36. The most recent example concerned the United Nations Mission for Ebola Emergency Response (UNMEER), where Member States had understood that to authorize the Secretary-General to carry out activities without providing funding was not responsible. Equally, the decision made regarding the associated costs of the capital master plan had authorized the Secretary-General to spend money on an essential activity while leaving consideration of financing to later. The Committee had subsequently authorized an assessment for UNMEER, and, of course, financing must be found for the associated costs. The Committee's decisions had created a very clear, solid basis for the Secretariat to carry out activities, so that regular budget activities would be implemented.
37. Towards year-end the financial situation would be tight. The Secretariat would closely monitor the situation and exercise the utmost prudence in terms of expenditure to carry out activities, but he expressed confidence in the situation.
38. Regarding the widespread concern about amounts owed to Member States, it was a top priority for the Secretariat, which was maximizing its efforts to reduce the outstanding amount. It was, in fact, part of the compact between the Secretary-General and Member States. The Secretariat would reimburse the Member States that contributed to peacekeeping operations. Various factors meant that, despite the Secretariat's best efforts, the amount outstanding could not be brought to zero.
39. Firstly, every peacekeeping operation had a different account. Each mission had a different status, so that some had a better financial situation than others. Closed missions presented another challenge - when the cash balance was very low reimbursement could not be made. Secondly, missions required a minimum cash balance for operational requirements; it could not be made very low. Thirdly, the cooperation was required of States participating in peacekeeping operations in terms of verifying troop levels every month as quickly as possible. Contingent-owned
15-07686
5/9
A/C.5/69/SR.39
equipment posed a particular challenge, as discussions were needed with contributors to reach agreement on a memorandum of understanding covering, inter alia, equipment and its value. Such matters were very technical. Nevertheless, the Secretariat would make its best efforts to discharge its important obligation to reduce the amount owed.
40. He looked forward to the continued support of Member States, as the Organization was entirely dependent on their payments in order to carry out activities.
41. Mr. Sanchez Azcuy (Cuba) requested an update of the situation regarding the Working Capital Fund and the Special Account in terms of the repayment of the funds used for the capital master plan, employed as a temporary mechanism. His delegation was extremely concerned by the fact that there was less than $200 million in the Special Account, which had been significantly depleted over the past two years, and also that the Working Capital Fund and the Special Account were being used for other than their intended purposes. He asked what the projection was for the repayment of the amounts taken from those sources.
42. Mr. Takasu (Under-Secretary-General for Management) said that the General Assembly, at its sixty-eighth session, had decided to use the Working Capital Fund and the Special Account as a bridging mechanism to address cash flow issues in connection with the associated costs of the capital master plan and to cover the resultant shortfall. As a result, at the end of April 2015 the balance in the Working Capital Fund had been reduced from $150 million to $127 million; the balance in the Special Account would be reduced to $198 million.
43. At the first part of the resumed session, the Assembly had taken a decision to meet the final capital master plan shortfall through a combination of actions: use of the Special Account; cancellation of prior period obligations and the unencumbered balance relating to 2012-2013; and an additional assessment on Member States. That extremely positive political decision had facilitated a definitive solution. The Secretariat would transfer back $23 million to the Working Capital Fund and restore it to $150 million. The Special Account would remain at a reduced level of $198.4 million. The additional contributions from Member States would be on top of the amounts already due in 2016. The effect
of those actions would be to make good the capital master plan shortfall by year-end.
Agenda item 148: Administrative and budgetary aspects of the financing of the United Nations peacekeeping operations (continued) (A/69/653, A/69/653/Corr.1, A/69/653/Add.1, A/69/750, A/69/750/Corr.1, A/69/791 and A/69/860)
44. Ms. Bartsiotas (Controller), introducing the budget performance report for the period from 1 July 2013 to 30 June 2014 (A/69/653, A/69/653/Corr.1 and A/69/ 653/Add.1) and budget for the period from 1 July 2015 to 30 June 2016 (A/69/750 and A/69/750/Corr.1) for the support account for peacekeeping operations, said that the General Assembly had approved $327.4 million for the support account for 2013/14, including $18.7 million for the financing of the enterprise resource planning project, Umoja. Actual expenditure had been $315 million - a budget implementation rate of 96.2 per cent - resulting in an unencumbered balance of $12.4 million, of which $8 million reflected underexpenditure on posts due to vacancies and lower common staff costs and $4 million reflected underexpenditure on consultants and general temporary assistance.
45. Those resources had allowed the effective backstopping of peacekeeping operations and funded support for the implementation of a number of Security Council decisions having a major impact on operations, including backstopping of the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic (MINUSCA), continuation of the Force Intervention Brigade in the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUSCO), and additional protection of civilians in the United Nations Mission in South Sudan (UNMISS).
46. The deployment of Umoja Foundation in the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL) and the preparation of International Public Sector Accounting Standards-compliant statements for all active and closed peacekeeping missions - which had received an unqualified opinion from the external auditor - had affected all peacekeeping missions and required intensive backstopping support.
47. At the beginning of each budget cycle, the Secretariat reviewed the number, size and complexity of peacekeeping operations and level of support
6/9
15-07686
A/C.5/69/SR.39
required by missions. The support account currently funded 1,458 posts and positions in 14 departments and offices, mainly located in New York, including the Department of Peacekeeping Operations, the Department of Field Support, the Department of Management and the Office of Internal Oversight Services, as well as other important, centrally provided functions.
48. In preparing the support account budget for 2015/16, the Secretariat had reviewed all posts to take into account the distribution of workload, responsibilities and functions: any changes in operational requirements were reflected in the proposals before the Committee. In line with the growing needs of peacekeeping, financial resources for 2015/16 were estimated at $338 million, an increase of $12 million, or 3.7 per cent, over 2014/15. The combined budget for the support account and the United Nations Logistics Base, excluding enterprise resource planning costs, represented less than 5 per cent the total peacekeeping budget, the same level as in 20l4/15.
49. In response to the views expressed by the Advisory Committee, a thorough review had been conducted of the long-term use of temporary assistance. The budget contained a proposal to regularize 45 temporary positions which had been continuously approved by the General Assembly for at least four years or whose functions had been identified as being of a continuing nature. Some information technology and supply chain management costs had been apportioned to mission budgets rather than the support account. Her office would continue to identify such costs as it refined the methodology.
50. As staff costs represented more than 75 per cent of the total resources for the support account, determination of the vacancy rate was key to the accuracy of the budget. Most of the posts were at Headquarters, given which a vacancy rate of 12 per cent had been used for Professional posts and 6 per cent for General Service posts, regardless of whether they were continuing, new or temporary. The most up-to-date vacancy rates available were 9.5 per cent and 7 per cent for established Professional and General Service posts, and 12.9 per cent and 18.5 per cent for temporary Professional and General Service positions.
51. Under non-post resources, there were increased requirements for after-service health insurance of $0.8 million compared with 2014/15, mainly due to the increase in the cost of health insurance for retired
peacekeeping staff and a projected increase in beneficiaries of 1.6 per cent a year.
52. The support account enabled the Secretariat to provide robust and effective backstopping of peacekeeping operations at a time of new threats and rapidly changing realities on the ground. The departments and offices receiving funding from the support account provided a wide range of critical services to peacekeeping operations. Those centralized functions ensured standardization, strong internal control and consistent application of policies and procedures, thereby ensuring that mandates were carried out and Member States' resources for peacekeeping used in the most efficient and effective manner.
53. Mr. Ruiz Massieu (Chair of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions), introducing the related report of the Advisory Committee (A/69/860), said that the recommendations of the Advisory Committee would entail a reduction of $3.2 million in the resources proposed by the Secretary-General.
54. The Advisory Committee noted the increase in the number of proposed posts and positions even as the numbers of uniformed and civilian personnel in peacekeeping missions were projected to decrease, as well as the proposed increase in the number of posts at the D-l and D-2 levels, and recalled that the General Assembly had repeatedly emphasized that the support account should correspond to the mandate and size of peacekeeping operations.
55. Regarding the proposed application of uniform vacancy rates to the 2015/16 estimates for both new and continuing posts and positions, the Advisory Committee recommended continued application of different rates, as it was premature to align the budgetary process for the support account with that of the regular budget.
56. The Advisory Committee recommended that the support account budget should reflect costs for the development of information technology applications and for the supply chain management initiative rather than charging them to mission budgets.
57. Regarding the proposal to convert 45 temporary positions deemed to be of a continuing nature to posts, the Advisory Committee noted a lack of coherence in the criteria for proposing conversions. The Advisory
15-07686
7/9
A/C.5/69/SR.39
Committee acknowledged the efforts made to reduce resources under consultants, and encouraged the Secretary-General to continue reducing dependence on consultants by building in-house capacity. With regard to the proposed increase in resources for official travel, insufficient attention had been given to General Assembly resolution 67/254 on standards of accommodation for air travel, with respect to costsaving measures. The Advisory Committee recommended an overall 10-per-cent reduction in official travel.
58. Mr. Davidson (South Africa), speaking on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, said that all peacekeeping operations must be provided with the necessary resources to fulfil their mandates, and stressed the importance of providing backstopping to all missions in all phases. The level of the support account should broadly correspond to the mandate, number, size and complexity of peacekeeping missions. The changing nature of peacekeeping operations and their new mandates and level of complexity necessitated adequate resources and development of appropriate policies and support arrangements.
59. Support provided to missions by Headquarters must be furnished in the most integrated manner possible in the interest of efficiency and effectiveness and avoidance of duplication. Qualitative improvements in service delivery to the civilian and uniformed personnel on the ground were required.
60. The level of representation of troop-contributing countries in all relevant departments, including on the support side, both in the field and at Headquarters, particularly at the senior management level, was critical to greater coherence between those who managed, directed and commanded operations. There was considerable room for improvement in that regard. The General Assembly had consistently requested the Secretary-General to ensure adequate representation of troop-contributing countries, particularly in the Department of Peacekeeping Operations and the Department of Field Support, in line with their contributions to peacekeeping.
61. The Group had taken note of the budget performance report for 2013/14, updated information for 2014/15, and proposed budget for 2015/16, including budget parameters and vacancy rates, as well as the observations and recommendations of the Advisory Committee on budgeting in the support
account rather than mission budgets for the application in the field of information communications technology and supply chain management.
62. With regard to human resource management, posts and positions approved by the Assembly must be used solely for their intended purpose. The Group was disappointed at the continued trend of shifting resources between different areas in the context of vacancy management. The Group had taken note of the proposed abolishment, reclassification and redeployment of posts and functions across a number of departments, units and divisions and would seek clarification.
63. The Group was concerned at the high vacancy rates experienced by the Office of Internal Oversight Services, particularly in the field, and the impact on delivery of its mandate. It wished to know what the reasons were, and to what extent the Office had established itself at the Regional Service Centre in Entebbe.
64. The Group was concerned that the Secretary General continued to implement restructuring and reorganization in the Secretariat, particularly in the Departments of Field Support and Peacekeeping Operations, without the approval of Member States, and that proposals similar to ones rejected in the past continued to be presented to the Committee.
65. Regarding procurement in the field, the Group wished to have details of the activities planned for the outreach programme, in particular the business seminars and vendor registration workshops, as related to support account funding.
66. Ms. Power (Observer for the European Union), speaking also on behalf of the candidate countries Albania, Montenegro, Serbia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Turkey; the stabilization and association process country Bosnia and Herzegovina; and, in addition, Armenia, said that the European Union attached great importance to peacekeeping operations as a core task of the Organization. Peacekeeping support functions were an important factor in ensuring mandate delivery in the field.
67. Her delegation agreed that peacekeeping support account reports were increasingly complex. The Secretary-General should make presentational improvements in future reports to facilitate understanding and comparisons between financial periods.
8/9
15-07686
A/C.5/69/SR.39
68. The Secretary-General's proposals represented an increase over the appropriation for 2014/15. While that was mainly due to provisions for enterprise resource planning and information systems security, the number of posts requested had once again increased as a result of proposed conversions from general temporary assistance. The Secretary-General's presentation understated the real size of the increase, as information and communications costs previously included in the support account had been transferred to mission budgets. In reality the increase in the support account, including such costs, was some $3.4 million higher than presented. The same was true of $4 million in supply chain management costs included in mission budget proposals rather than the support account.
69. The proposed increase in posts and positions under the support account came at a time when the numbers of military and police personnel and civilian staff in peacekeeping were decreasing. Also, notwithstanding the declining numbers of personnel in peacekeeping, the combined share of the support account and the Logistics Base as a percentage of the resources proposed for peacekeeping missions in 2015/16 was expected to remain the same, at 4.7 per cent, as in 20l4/15. As support functions should be scalable to the size and scope of peacekeeping operations and there should be a relationship between the level of support account backstopping and the number, size and complexity of peacekeeping operations, her delegation was interested in hearing how the Secretariat had taken account of those considerations in their review of requirements for 2015/16 and how they were reflected in the budget proposals. The rationale for conversion of general temporary assistance positions to posts was also of interest.
70. The Member States of the European Union reiterated the importance of keeping in mind the purpose of the support account as envisaged when first conceived. It should be properly structured, transparent and relevant to evolving mandates so that it could provide the core capacity to support peacekeeping operations.
The meeting rose at 11.30 a.m.
15-07686
9/9