United Nations
A/C.5/72/SR.43
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
Official Records
Distr.: General 25 July 2018
Original: English
Fifth Committee
Summary record of the 43rd meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Thursday, 31 May 2018, at 10 a.m.
Chair: Mr. Tommo Monthe (Cameroon)
Chair of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions: Mr Ruiz Massieu
Contents
Agenda item 160: Financing of the United Nations peacekeeping forces in the Middle East (continued)
(b) United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (continued)
Agenda item 134: Review of the efficiency of the administrative and financial functioning of the United Nations (continued)
Shifting the management paradigm in the United Nations (continued)
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Management Section (dms@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
18-08725 (E)
III III III 17251!
A/C.5/72/SR.43
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 160: Financing of the United Nations peacekeeping forces in the Middle East (continued)
(b) United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon
(continued) (A/C.5/72/L.31)
Draft resolution A/C.5/72/L.31: Financing of the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon
1. Mr. Ismail (Egypt), introducing draft resolution A/C.5/72/L.31, on the financing of the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL), on behalf of the Group of 77 and China as the sponsor, in particular of the wording of the fourth preambular paragraph and paragraphs 4, 5 and 13, recalled that the SecretaryGeneral, responding to General Assembly resolution 71/307, had stated that Israel had failed to pay the amount of $1,117,005 resulting from the incident at Qana on 18 April 1996. The Secretary-General had further explained that he had received no response to his subsequent letters addressed to the Permanent Mission of Israel in that regard, the latest dated 16 January 2018. The Group stressed once again that Israel should pay the amount due in connection with the incident at Qana on 18 April 1996, requested the Secretary-General to report on the matter to the General Assembly at its seventythird session, and reiterated its acknowledgement of the positive contribution made by UNIFIL to the restoration of peace and security in the region.
2. Mr. Wax (Israel) said that it was strangely paradoxical for the Fifth Committee, just as it was embarking on discussing proposals for management reform at the United Nations, to be taking part in what had become an unfortunate annual ritual surrounding discussion of the draft resolution on the financing of UNIFIL. That ritual involved disregarding the Committee's basic working methods, which focused on cooperation, negotiation and consensus, and should confine deliberation to the budgetary aspects of peacekeeping. Instead, the Group of 77 and China had once again chosen to hijack the Committee's discussions, in pursuit of claims against a single Member State, once more highlighting the inherent bias against Israel.
3. At the current session, disregard for the working methods of the Committee had been further demonstrated by the addition to the draft resolution of new wording which had not even been submitted for consideration in the informal consultations on the item. Consequently, if the Committee were to be informed that no consensus could be reached on the draft resolution, it should be clear to all that the cause was the failure to conduct discussions in the informal
consultations prior to the current meeting. Allowing such a disregard of procedure was a dangerous precedent for the Fifth Committee. Israel wished to reiterate its support for the work of UNIFIL, but also to suggest that, as the Committee proceeded to discuss reforming the work of the Organization, it should take into account what had become a routine, inappropriate, use of its own structure.
4. The Chair said that the Committee would defer taking action on the draft resolution to a later date.
Agenda item 134: Review of the efficiency of the administrative and financial functioning of the United Nations (continued)
Shifting the management paradigm in the
United Nations (continued) (A/72/7/Add.49
and A/72/492/Add.2)
5. Ms. Ribeiro Viotti (Chef de Cabinet, Executive Office of the Secretary-General), introducing the report of the Secretary-General on shifting the management paradigm in the United Nations: implementing a new management architecture for improved effectiveness and strengthened accountability (A/72/492/Add.2), said that the Secretary-General, from the beginning of his term, had pledged to implement an ambitious reform agenda, making it a central focus of his work. In 2017, he had launched three reform tracks: reform of the peace and security architecture; reform of the development system; and reform of the internal management of the United Nations. All were aimed at improving the Secretariat's ability to implement its mandates and enabling it to use its resources more effectively; in short, at improving its work on behalf of Member States, to better serve people around the world.
6. In October 2017, the Secretary-General had outlined his vision for a shift in the management paradigm of the United Nations, basing that vision on the principles of simplification, decentralisation, delegation of authority, accountability and transparency. Building on the proposal outlined in his initial report on the subject (A/72/492 and A/72/492/Add.1), the current report contained the costed proposal for the reorganization of the current Department of Management and Department of Field Support into two new departments: a Department of Management Strategy, Policy and Compliance, with a clear policy, strategy and compliance role; complemented by a Department of Operational Support, focused on operations, services, transactions and surge support. Both departments would serve the entire Secretariat.
7. At its core, management reform - which went beyond mere restructuring - aimed to make the
2/14
18-08725
A/C.5/72/SR.43
Secretariat better-positioned and better-equipped to fulfil its duties; establish greater transparency, accountability and effectiveness; and change the status quo. That would require a shift in management paradigm from a centralized to a decentralized Secretariat and from a bureaucracy focused on process to an institution focused on results. The changes to current structures would enable that shift. The rationale for the changes was clear: eliminating duplication of functions,
establishing a clearer division of roles and responsibilities, and providing for the necessary checks and balances.
8. The existing Department of Management and Department of Field Support had been established at different times and for different purposes, and dealt with critical and essential business processes, including budgets, recruitment and procurement. However, the differing scopes of their mandates and delegated authority had led to inconsistent services and inconsistent levels of support across the Secretariat. Moreover, the division of responsibilities between the two departments, particularly in their support to peace operations, was often potentially unclear. The piecemeal delegation of authority, duplication of effort, the design and application of policies originally crafted for non-mission settings, and repetitive processes with multiple departmental handover points had all contributed to lengthy timelines and weaker accountability.
9. The findings of the 2015 report of the High-Level Independent Panel on Peace Operations (HIPPO) (see A/70/95-S/2015/446) had indicated that the current administrative framework was failing to enable effective and efficient field operations and that duplication, delays and bureaucratic friction were undermining the Organization's work. The SecretaryGeneral ‘s reforms were aimed at addressing those challenges, which also affected non-field settings. The Secretary-General strongly believed that segregating policy from operations in the Secretariat's management structures was a prerequisite for meaningful change. The proposed structure would make possible that segregation, enabling the Secretariat to constantly assess and improve the effectiveness of policies and administrative support functions.
10. The Secretariat's current structures, particularly those relating to procurement and human resources management, were slow and cumbersome. In procurement, the process for establishing a systems contract could take 24 months and involve some 40 steps, and even after that process had been concluded, there could be further delays. In Somalia, for example, purchases from a systems contract had taken an average
of 288 days, and it had taken 114 days to amend an existing contract. As much of the delay occurred at interdepartmental handover points, integration of procurement and logistics into a single department would streamline the process, reduce the delays and enable a more holistic measure of performance that took into account sourcing, delivery and return or disposal of items, instead of focusing only on costs.
11. Moving to an integrated supply chain management approach would ensure that missions and field offices received goods and services at the right location, at the right time and at the right cost. Controls would not be sacrificed for speed: current segregation of processes and existing firewalls would be retained. The logistics structure would work with clients and retain responsibilities of a technical nature: planning global requirements; performing technical evaluations of bids; and enabling strategic and critical movements of troops and equipment. The procurement structure, meanwhile, would retain responsibilities of a commercial nature: advising on market conditions and latest innovations; managing procurement exercises and administering contracts. The proposed Department of Management Strategy, Policy and Compliance would provide an additional compliance layer to make internal controls even more robust than they were currently.
12. The Secretariat needed better human resources management policies, and should provide managers with better support. Under the existing structure, it had struggled with strategic human resources functions, including strategic workforce planning and career development. Human resources staff spent most of their time meeting the operational and transactional requirements of non-field entities, resulting in insufficient focus on strategic issues or on designing policies that met field requirements; in other words, human-resources policies had been too Headquarterscentric. Staff contracts and conditions of service did not reflect the imperatives of the field. The proposed structure took full account of segregation of duties between the framers of policy and the implementers of policy, allowing for more effective compliance. The Department of Management Strategy, Policy and Compliance would be able to deal with overall, policyoriented, human resources management, while the Department of Operational Support would focus on operations, support services and transactions.
13. Not all operational aspects of human resources management could be decentralized to senior managers. Some functions, such as maintenance of recruitment rosters and support for the placement of staff during downsizing exercises, could only be effectively performed in a centralized manner by the Department of
18-08725
3/14
A/C.5/72/SR.43
Operational Support. In addition, some entities might be small and lack sufficient capacities to perform human resources functions. The Department of Operational Support would provide executive-office-type functions for those entities and, in addition, provide surge support for field entities when required.
14. The proposed reorganisation of structures and functions was not only a response to current weaknesses, but also an effort to build on the benefits delivered by past reforms. Many of the services performed by the existing Department of Field Support for peace operations were also required by other parts of the Secretariat. The proposed restructuring would make those services more systematically available across the entire Secretariat. Likewise, the reform would ensure that strategies, policies and compliance mechanisms applied across the entire Secretariat, including the sections dealing with peace operations.
15. The Secretary-General was proposing the creation, from within existing resources, of several new features and management functions. The first was a new Business Transformation and Accountability Division, focusing on performance, monitoring, self-evaluation and compliance, and enabling the Secretariat to address many of the issues raised by oversight bodies in recent years. The second was a new Uniformed Capabilities Support Division, consolidating capacities currently spread across three divisions in two departments. That division would create a “one-stop shop” for troop- and police-contributing countries for all administrative and logistical issues relating to force generation, memorandums of understanding, contingent-owned equipment and reimbursements. It would also enable faster processing of reimbursements and other claims. The third was a new Support Partnerships Service, which would focus on situations in which the United Nations provided support to non-United Nations activities, particularly African peace support operations, including the African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM) and the G5 Sahel Joint Force. The fourth was a single division consolidating healthcare management and occupational health and safety, currently split across three departments, making possible a more holistic approach to medical issues in the field and improved safety and security for peacekeepers. The fifth was a structure locating together administrative law and conduct and discipline functions, in order to ensure consistency of approach across the Secretariat, regardless of location. The sixth was a single office consolidating global information technology functions and reporting to both the UnderSecretary-General for Management Strategy, Policy and Compliance and the Under-Secretary-General for
Operational Support, to ensure unified delivery of the information and communications technology strategy. Information and communications technology was a rapidly evolving area of work in which policy was often behind, and attempting to catch up with, advances in operations. A unified Office of Information and Communications Technology would increase effectiveness, speed up operational support, strengthen accountability and ensure that that technology supported the core work of the United Nations better. The seventh was an internal management structure, the Management Client Board, to be co-chaired by the Under-SecretariesGeneral of the new departments. It would be made up of representatives from the different types of department and other entities within the Secretariat, serving in rotation, to ensure that both of the new departments addressed the particular requirements of all parts of the Secretariat. It would also ensure that operational requirements served as input into policy-making processes.
16. Through those changes, the Secretariat would increase transparency and accountability to Member States by: (a) creating stronger internal control and quality assurance functions; (b) changing the current system of delegation of authority to enable managers to deliver what was expected of them, and to enable them to be held accountable for their performance; (c) separating responsibilities between the two new departments, to ensure better support for troop and police contingents and faster processing of reimbursements; (d) improving the Secretariat's selfevaluation capacities, and (e) reflecting financial and procurement transactional-level expenditure information on dashboards, accessible to Member States, based on International Aid Transparency Initiative standards.
17. The Secretary-General was seeking the support of the General Assembly for the creation of the two new departments, and for the provision of the resources required. The costings were set out in great detail in the revised estimates for the current programme budget and the proposal for the support account for 2018-19. The posts required would remain within the current envelope. If the Assembly's decision was forthcoming and was positive, the Secretary-General planned to launch the new departments by January 2019. Doing so would require a considerable change process in the subsequent six months, and even thereafter, with the need to reprofile, advertise and fill posts for the new departments and to find a humane solution for the staff affected. That would involve conversations with them to determine the possibility of retraining for the new
4/14
18-08725
A/C.5/72/SR.43
functions, making a lateral move, or, if they preferred, taking up the option of agreed separation.
18. Beyond the restructuring, a continuous effort would be made to review rules, administrative policies and guidance in order to simplify existing management frameworks; in order to decentralize decision-making through increased delegations of authority; and in order to streamline convoluted processes. As the staff of the Organization were its greatest asset, guidance and training would be provided to ensure understanding of staff roles and responsibilities under the new paradigm. With the support of the Fifth Committee, the SecretaryGeneral hoped to change the status quo and bring about the paradigm shift that would make the United Nations more effective and better able to respond to the challenges facing it.
19. Mr. Ruiz Massieu (Chair of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions), introducing the related report of the Advisory Committee (A/72/7/Add.49), said that the Advisory Committee, in broad terms, was recommending approval of the concept and design of the new structures proposed by the Secretary-General, recognizing that they were motivated by the need to improve effective delivery of mandates and achievement of results. The underlying premise of the Advisory Committee's views had been that the Secretary-General, in his capacity as chief administrative officer of the Organization, could take steps to adapt the structures of the Secretariat to meet current needs.
20. With regard to management culture and leadership, the Advisory Committee welcomed the Secretary-General's focus on achieving a strong culture of accountability throughout the Secretariat, and stressed that exemplary leadership from senior management was critical to set the tone and standards for a strong culture of responsibility, accountability and personal integrity, in order to ensure compliance with rules and regulations and achieve results. With regard to delegation of authority and accountability issues, the Advisory Committee considered that the General Assembly should be provided with further details, including details of progress towards establishing welldefined roles and responsibilities for individuals at all levels to whom authority was being delegated. It recalled that it would be expanding on such matters in its forthcoming report on accountability.
21. The Advisory Committee was making two main recommendations regarding the proposed reorganization of the Department of Management and Department of Field Support. First, it recommended that
the General Assembly should request the SecretaryGeneral to consider reviewing the proposed placement of the procurement division together with the logistics division under the new Office of Supply-Chain Management in the Department of Operational Support, taking the view that strict segregation of duties was necessary, both between the requisitioning and procuring entities and between the entities responsible for technical evaluation and commercial evaluation. Second, it recommended that the General Assembly should request the Secretary-General to consider consolidating under a single administrative structure the proposed Office of Human Resources in the Department of Management Strategy, Policy and Compliance, and the proposed Human Resources Services Division in the Office of Support Operations in the Department of Operational Support. It took the view that such a step would ensure a unified approach, allow the distribution of functions to be optimized and avoid duplication, with benefits similar to those expected through the consolidation of other functions such as information and communications technology services and support for uniformed personnel.
22. The Advisory Committee also considered that a major endeavour such as the reorganization of Headquarters management structures should provide opportunities to seek ways to eliminate duplication and overlap, and therefore increase efficiency. If the General Assembly decided to endorse the Advisory Committee's recommendations, the Advisory Committee further recommended that the General Assembly should request the Secretary-General to submit updated revised estimates under the programme budget for 2018-2019 and updated resource requirements for the support account for peacekeeping operations for 2018/19.
23. Mr. Fouad (Egypt), speaking on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, said that the rationale of management reform was to improve the Organization's ability to deliver on all of its mandates, in all of its spheres of activity. If implemented properly, management reform should support other reforms, including the repositioning of the United Nations development system and the restructuring of the Organization's peace and security pillar. Recalling that the Group had backed the mandate provided by General Assembly resolution 72/266, which had launched the current reform process and marked one of the most significant shifts in the Organization's programme planning and budgeting arrangements since the 1970s, he emphasized the Group's firm position, based on the Charter of the United Nations, that reform must be driven by the Member States, with oversight exercised by the Member States. Full respect for the
18-08725
5/14
A/C.5/72/SR.43
intergovernmental nature of negotiation and for the procedures of the General Assembly were the cornerstone of the reform process. The relationship of trust with the Member States that the Secretary-General had worked to build could only be retained by conducting reform in a transparent manner, using the proper channels.
24. As the General Assembly began its discussion of the next stage of the reform process, he wished to reiterate the guiding principles behind the Group's position. First, the Group believed that there was a need for greater transparency and greater accountability to the Member States. As the reduction of cumbersome and bureaucratic procedures in the Secretariat was distinct from the maintenance of the oversight functions of the General Assembly, the Group would examine the strengthening of accountability in the context of reform. Second, the Group took the view that the goal of reform was not to reduce costs or posts, but to enable to Organization to improve fulfilment of its mandates. In that connection, the Group welcomed the SecretaryGeneral's proposal to establish a Uniformed Capabilities Support Division as a single point of contact for all troop- and police-contributing countries regarding the logistical and administrative aspects of force generation, memorandums of understanding, contingent-owned equipment and reimbursement, and hoped that that would bring more responsive support from the Secretariat to those countries. It was unrealistic to call for the Organization to function effectively, implement its mandates in full and undertake major change if it was not provided with the required financial resources or if unilateral political conditions for the payment of assessed contributions were imposed. If the Secretary-General was expected to implement reform, he must be given the tools to do so. The Group recognized the constraints faced by many developing countries, but called upon all Member States in a position to do so to fulfil their financial obligations to the Organization in full, on time, and without conditions.
25. Third, the Group emphasized that what was approved at Headquarters would have wider implications across the United Nations system. Particularly because the proposed reforms had a direct impact on the administrative and financial management of the Organization, the Group would examine them carefully to assess how they could improve outcomes, how they might affect critical system-wide functions such as procurement, human resources and information and communications technology, and how they would complement other lines of reform. Fourth, while the Group valued the emphasis placed by the Secretary-
General on delivering results on the ground, it recalled that Headquarters must also fulfil mandates relating to the Member States, including support for legislative and judicial functions. It welcomed the greater use of new tools to give Member States more information on the performance of the programme budget. That had helped the Member States to link resource allocation more closely with performance indicators and mandated tasks, within an agreed strategic framework.
26. Fifth, the Group wished to stress once again the importance of ensuring equitable geographical representation and gender parity at all levels. It welcomed the progress that the Secretary-General had stimulated, particularly with regard to gender parity, and considered that the time had come to intensify efforts focused on equitable geographical representation, as the two were closely linked. It looked forward to a comprehensive geographical representation strategy that also identified the inherent process-related biases that allowed certain regional groups to dominate particular departments or senior management posts. The Group also wished to emphasize, as numerous General Assembly resolutions had, the need to ensure broad and fair access to procurement opportunities for developing countries and countries with transitional economies. Finally, the Group believed that, as management reform was a process rather than an event, no artificial deadlines should be set.
27. Mr. Burity (Angola), speaking on behalf of the Group of African States, said that his Group welcomed the proposed reform, and its objectives of streamlining procedures and processes, reducing duplication and improving effectiveness, accountability, transparency and oversight in the Organization. The Group was committed to the creation of a United Nations that was fit for purpose, delivered on its mandates, was guided by sound management principles, worked efficiently and was results-oriented.
28. In the informal consultations on the proposed reform, the Group would be seeking clarification of a number of aspects of the report of the SecretaryGeneral. First, it attached great importance to understanding the relationship between reform and the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Addis Ababa Action Agenda of the Third International Conference on Financing for Development. Second, it wished to better understand reform-related processes and enhancements focused on other departments and structures, including the Office of the Special Adviser on Africa and the Office of the High Representative for the Least Developed Countries, Landlocked Developing Countries and Small Island Developing States. Third, in view of the need for
6/14
18-08725
A/C.5/72/SR.43
effective human resources management, the Group looked forward to discussing a modernized, streamlined and integrated human resources system in which posts were not reserved for certain Member States and regions, in other words, one that did not accommodate the discriminatory exclusion of certain Member States or regions from certain departments, consultant teams, sanctions expert teams or monitoring teams, and that did not accommodate other related features contrary to the spirit of the Charter of the United Nations. There was a fundamental need to review the desirable-range formula and to restructure the human-resources system with an equitable-share mechanism for each Member State.
29. The Group also wished to learn in detail how the proposed reform would affect offices away from Headquarters. It had noted the intention to implement the reform in a cost-neutral manner, and would therefore explore further the implications for the reconfiguration and redeployment of human and financial resources. Finally, believing that the Secretary-General had presented his reform proposals in a spirit of openness and transparency, and wishing to see that approach retained, the Group emphasized that no initiative should be implemented without consideration by and approval of the intergovernmental bodies. In that connection, the role of the Fifth Committee and the Committee for Programme and Coordination were essential.
30. Mr. Grant (Canada), speaking also on behalf of Australia and New Zealand, said that the Committee should seize what was a once-in-a-generation opportunity for concrete organizational reform that would bring real benefits for United Nations operations in the field and for the people served by those operations. In that connection, the three delegations wished to emphasize several points. First, they strongly supported the Secretary-General's vision for management reform and believed that the General Assembly should approve his proposals in full, placing its trust in him, as the chief administrative officer of the Organization, to improve and modernize the United Nations. Second, the three pillars of reform were mutually reinforcing: management-related problems affected all parts of the United Nations system, with serious implications for the delivery of mandates. Practical changes, such as the establishment of a “onestop shop” for troop- and police-contributing countries would make the Organization more effective and would serve the Member States better. In addition, with General Assembly approval of the reform of the United Nations Development System imminent, the Fifth Committee should support the management reform proposals, thus contributing to the success of Development System reform and to the achievement of
the Sustainable Development Goals. Third, as the Secretary-General had emphasized, the management reform proposals were the start of a process. Proposed changes to structure must be backed by changes in culture, including in the areas of leadership and accountability. The Organization must provide an incentive to solve problems through different thinking and collaboration. The three delegations trusted that the Secretary-General was setting an example, in order to establish a stronger, more accountable, leadership culture.
31. Ms. Lee (Singapore), speaking on behalf of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), said that ASEAN was grateful for the Secretary-General's continued commitment to a transparent, inclusive and Member-State-driven reform process. It valued the views provided in the report of the Advisory Committee, considering them a good basis for the Fifth Committee's consultations, and regretted that there had been no provision made for reports on accountability, information and communications technology and the global service delivery model to be presented at the current part of the resumed seventy-second session. However, ASEAN understood that the Advisory Committee would need more time to consider those issues, and believed that prudence should take precedence over haste.
32. Noting that the reform proposals relating to the United Nations development system, the peace and security pillar and the management paradigm focused on improving the Organization's impact on the ground, ASEAN believed that reform, if correctly implemented, could strengthen the collective response to the needs and concerns of the Member States, with better outcomes and greater accountability. Reform must continue to concentrate on outcomes, especially in the quality of the services rendered to the Member States. Accordingly, ASEAN was pleased that the Secretary-General had emphasized the long-overdue task of streamlining processes and reducing unnecessary bureaucracy. It would pay particular attention to the role in the new structures of the oversight bodies - including the Office of Internal Oversight Services, the Board of Auditors and the Joint Inspection Unit - and would examine whether their views had been taken into account.
33. ASEAN was encouraged that the SecretaryGeneral had provided further detail on his intention to promote a change of culture in the Organization as a central driving force behind the reform. It hoped to hear more during the informal consultations on the 360degree evaluation of leaders and managers. It also expected concrete efforts and measurable progress in
18-08725
7/14
A/C.5/72/SR.43
ensuring equitable geographical distribution of posts across the United Nations, including posts at senior levels. Finally, ASEAN emphasized that the process of reform was a joint endeavour. The Member States must play their part in enabling the reforms to take place by paying their assessed contributions in full, on time and without conditions, in accordance with their legal and financial obligations under the Charter of the United Nations.
34. Ms. Adamson (Observer for the European Union), speaking also on behalf of the candidate countries Albania, Montenegro, Serbia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Turkey; the stabilization and association process country Bosnia and Herzegovina; and, in addition, Armenia, Georgia and the Republic of Moldova, said that the European Union supported the Secretary-General's management-reform proposals, understanding that that reform was not just a matter of restructuring, but of enabling the Organization to better fulfil its mandates. Reform should lead to a transformation of the Organization, to ensure better delivery of programmes through stronger support structures and more rational decentralization, accompanied by stronger leadership and organizational culture. The separation of policy and strategy from operational support functions had the potential to give staff a greater focus on their core responsibilities and to improve effectiveness and efficiency. Core principles of the reform process were clearer reporting lines and better accountability, transparency and performance. Commending the Secretary-General for his commitment to the reform process and for addressing Member States ' concerns and requests for information, she said that the European Union was particularly interested in progress on the issue of delegation of authority, and trusted that steps would be taken to ensure that international best practice in that regard was followed.
35. Her delegation would study carefully the observations and recommendations of the Advisory Committee, and would seek assurances in connection with the latter's remaining concerns, believing firmly that the Secretary-General would be able to address them, and that he was taking action on change management to ensure that senior managers would be able to implement the proposed reforms. Recalling that the General Assembly had sought consensus on resolutions to guide various aspects of reform - of the United Nations development system, of the peace and security architecture, and of the Organization's management - her delegation believed that implementation should proceed without delay. In order to act in a holistic manner and maintain momentum, the Fifth Committee must reach agreement by the end of
June 2018 on implementation of the reform of the peace and security architecture and of the Organization's management, including the global service delivery model. Her delegation therefore called on the Committee Chair and on the senior Secretariat officials to ensure that the Fifth Committee was allocated appropriate meeting time and conference rooms and services.
36. Mr. Lauber (Switzerland), speaking also on behalf of Liechtenstein, said that, as the United Nations and its Charter were more important than ever to bringing peace and prosperity to the world, the Organization needed a structure, culture of action, rules and processes and methods of engagement with its Member States that enabled it to discharge its mandates as effectively as possible. Switzerland and Liechtenstein therefore gave their full support to the SecretaryGeneral's management reform and new management paradigm. The Secretariat's structure must adapt to current needs, changing circumstances and technological opportunity. The proposed reorganization would improve mandate delivery by establishing unity of leadership, clearly defining roles and responsibilities and strengthening oversight and accountability.
37. A change in culture must be the basis for reform, to ensure that the Organization was no longer driven by processes but instead by results, with staff being set clear goals and being guided by common-sense rules and methods. A key element of that change in culture was greater delegation of authority, to empower managers and staff, who must also be held accountable for their actions and performance by an effective accountability system and results-based management framework. The change must be supported by comprehensive reform of the Organization's humanresources management and be underpinned by exemplary leadership from senior managers, who must set the tone and uphold standards. The Member States had given the Secretary-General a strong mandate for change, welcoming his management reform proposals through General Assembly resolution 72/266, and they should not miss the current opportunity to help those proposals to proceed. In return, the Organization would achieve better results in the areas of peace and security, sustainable development and human rights.
38. Ms. Norman-Chalet (United States of America) said that her delegation welcomed the SecretaryGeneral's continued leadership and personal engagement regarding reform of the United Nations and his helpful dialogue with the Member States during the informal briefing on the management reform proposals convened by the president of the General Assembly on 22 May 2018. The Member States had shown their clear
8/14
18-08725
A/C.5/72/SR.43
support by adopting a series of resolutions on various aspects of that reform. The Secretary-General had made a compelling case for change, and, in leading the reform efforts, had focused on promoting their success and adopting a prudent path that took all views into account. He had also transmitted the message that the status quo could not continue, in the light of the key challenges that faced the Organization: unclear lines of accountability, slow and cumbersome processes, duplication of functions and a lack of trust within and between the Secretariat and the Member States. Her delegation believed that the momentum of recent months must be exploited to ensure implementation of the reforms by January 2019, and that the objective of effective and efficient fulfilment of mandates must be pursued. Efficiency was an essential part of the reform process, as Member States had a duty to their taxpayers to ensure that the Organization's resources were used wisely.
39. The core of the reform efforts was not restructuring, but a shift in the management paradigm, centred on decentralization, eliminating duplication and implementation of proper oversight. Genuine reform could only take place if accompanied by a change in organizational culture that provided rewards and incentives for performance and innovation and appropriately addressed underperformance. As the Secretary-General had indicated, such change could not be produced immediately; it would require strong and constant leadership, consistent engagement with the Organization's staff, and ownership of the reform by the Secretariat. The Organization's managers and staff must have the ability and the tools to deliver results in an accountable and transparent way.
40. In common with other delegations, the United States delegation had noted that reports on other reformrelated issues, including accountability, information and communications technology strategy, and the global service delivery model, had not yet been presented to the General Assembly. It urged expeditious conclusion of the Advisory Committee's consideration of those issues, to enable the Fifth Committee to consider them at the current resumed part of the seventy-second session.
41. Mr. Velazquez Castillo (Mexico), acknowledging the value of the informal briefing on the management reform proposals convened by the president of the General Assembly on 22 May 2018, said that his delegation had consistently expressed its support for the Secretary-General's reform proposals. Following the proposals for the restructuring of the United Nations development system and the Organization's peace and security pillar, the proposed management reforms would offer a clear division between policymaking and
operations, focus on activities in the field, delegation of authority intended to make procedures to implement mandates more flexible, and improved transparency and accountability. His delegation welcomed the fact that no additional resources were being requested in connection with those reforms, and would give them careful consideration, along with the observations and recommendations of the Advisory Committee, during the Fifth Committee's informal consultations. It would seek further detail on the proposed management reforms' impact on policies in the areas of human resources, information and communications technology and procurement, and on the operation of the SecretaryGeneral's intended increased delegation of authority, including the risk-management measures that would inevitably be needed. His delegation was also interested to know over what length of time, and in what manner, the Member States would be able to gauge the results of the new arrangements, including, for example, expected financial savings resulting from efficiency gains, and make any necessary adjustments, in order not to lose the momentum and continuity of reform.
42. Mr. Duque Estrada Meyer (Brazil) said that Brazil, as a long-standing and strong advocate of reform of the United Nations, believed that, for the Organization to fulfil the role defined for it at its founding, it must evolve and be able to meet the challenges of the twenty-first century. Reform must address the issue of ensuring the quality of the mandates of the Organization, whose core work was substantive decision-making. The most significant requirement in that regard was updating the composition of the Security Council, which did not represent the realities of the contemporary world. In addition, the Economic and Social Council must be strengthened, and the General Assembly must be revitalized.
43. Recalling that the General Assembly had signalled its support for the Secretary-General's reform proposals with its adoption of resolution 72/266, in which it had commended him for his vision of a Member State-driven process, the delegation of Brazil supported the proposal to alter the Organization's management paradigm by decentralizing the Secretariat and focusing it on field operations, a process involving delegation of authority over human, financial and material resources to heads of entities in the field, and the restructuring of departments at Headquarters. However, simplification of bureaucracy and procedures at the Secretariat must not be achieved at the cost of disregarding the system of oversight of administrative and budgetary affairs based on the Charter of the Organization, and referred to in General Assembly resolution 72/266. With regard to the proposed separation of policy functions and operational
18-08725
9/14
A/C.5/72/SR.43
functions under two distinct departments, account must be taken of the need for constant feedback and adaptation.
44. Management reform could not be achieved without concrete measures for equitable geographical representation and gender parity throughout the Secretariat. Reform must also result in greater opportunities for developing-country vendors in highvalue United Nations procurement processes. The funding and backstopping of special political missions, a management issue on which the Fifth Committee had yet to find a way forward, must be addressed. Clearly, management reform could not by itself remedy the Organization's most fundamental flaws and enable it to fulfil its potential. However, the Secretary-General had made bold proposals, and it fell to the Member States to make any necessary adjustments and set in motion the second stage of his overall reform vision.
45. Mr. Hilale (Morocco) said that his delegation fully supported the management reform vision of the Secretary-General, welcoming his commitment to consulting the Member States on the reform process, as illustrated by the informal briefing on the management reform proposals convened by the president of the General Assembly on 22 May 2018, and the vision of a United Nations that was more accountable and efficient, was better able to address current challenges, pursued gender equality and made better use of its human and financial resources. The adoption by the General Assembly of resolution 72/266 had enabled the process of reforming the pillars of the Organization's activity, and its management paradigm, to begin. However, as that resolution had indicated, the various components of the reform must be integrated, coherent and mutually reinforcing. They must in no way seek to change established mandates, or to cut budgets.
46. His delegation welcomed the proposal to establish two new Secretariat departments, and wished to make comments focusing on three main issues. First, with regard to management and leadership, it wished to emphasize that senior managers must set an example, in order to ensure a culture of accountability and adherence to rules and regulations. Particular attention should be paid to staff recruitment and promotion when the new human resources strategy was examined at the seventythird session of the General Assembly. Also in that connection, his delegation proposed that consensus should be sought for other changes to other policies, such as risk management and results-based management, and urged that thought should be given to other ways to improve management culture and leadership. Second, with regard to delegation of authority, his delegation called for precise assurances of
implementation, covering risk management and accountability, in order to ensure that the system of delegation of authority was used responsibly and that resources were used efficiently. Third, with regard to the fundamental principle of accountability, his delegation - while welcoming the placing of that principle at the centre of management reform - would await with interest the comprehensive review of the current regulatory frameworks, the mapping of existing delegations of authority and the assessment of individual capacities of the various entities.
47. As the proposal for strengthened accountability was only the first step in the process, the Secretariat must continue to transmit information on the methods for exercising delegation of authority, for monitoring adherence to rules and regulations, and for maintaining solid checks and balances; on the extent of delegation of authority and the thresholds applying to financial commitments and procurement; on the way in which those to whom authority was delegated were held to account; on action to be taken in cases of abuse of delegation of authority, poor performance or waste of resources, and, lastly, on the grounds that would be used to revoke delegation of authority.
48. Ms. Lodhi (Pakistan) said that the international environment was more uncertain and unsettled than at any time in the previous two decades, a situation compounded by a serious and sustained threat to multilateralism. The multiple current challenges had created a need for greater international cooperation at a time when the very legitimacy and relevance of the United Nations was being questioned. Her delegation hoped that the management reforms proposed by the Secretary-General would help the response to the international situation. With 90 per cent of United Nations personnel serving in the field, there was an urgent and important need to bring decision-making close to them. The reform process set in motion by General Assembly resolution 72/266 must now be taken further in order to make the Organization more responsive, agile and fit-for-purpose, and complicated procedures, duplication of authority, fragmented approaches and dysfunctional rules must be changed.
49. In that connection, her delegation wished to highlight five points. First, the United Nations required checks and balances in the form of a system guaranteeing transparency and accountability, not only to the Secretary-General, but also to Member States. The role of the General Assembly and related intergovernmental bodies in evaluating the performance of managers at all levels must be strengthened. Second, the Organization owed troop- and police-contributing countries $1.2 billion in payment for personnel and
10/14
18-08725
A/C.5/72/SR.43
equipment, a substantial amount of that sum being due to Pakistan, which had volunteered over 172,000 personnel in the service of international peace and security since 1962. Pakistan therefore welcomed the proposed establishment of a new Uniformed Capabilities Support Division to expedite reimbursement to Member States. Third, Member States had long called for equitable geographical representation, including representation of troop- and police-contributing countries in proportion to their contribution to United Nations peacekeeping. Pakistan reiterated its demand that those principles should be adhered to. Doing so would increase diversity in the United Nations system, but also enable troop- and police-contributing countries to share their valuable experience from the field. Fourth, Pakistan appreciated the commitment of the Secretary-General to gender parity at senior management level. Efforts to achieve that aim, particularly in connection with female staff from developing countries, should continue. Fifth, continuing to recite the principle of “doing more with less” was clearly unsustainable. Adequate resources were needed to achieve the desired results on the ground, where the performance of managers would undoubtedly suffer if programmatic activities were underfunded.
50. Mr. Fu Daopeng (China) said that his delegation supported management reform efforts, hoping that they would improve the Organization's operational capacity and efficiency, promote its central role in global multilateral governance and contribute to the fulfilment of the Sustainable Development Goals. Reform should accommodate the interests of all parties, proceed in a prudent manner, and be oriented in the right direction. As one of the six principal organs of the United Nations, the Secretariat was essential to the delivery of the Organization's mandates and fulfilment of its proper roles. Management reform there was a major component of reform of the United Nations system, and supported the reform of the United Nations peace and security architecture and development system.
51. Management culture at the United Nations should be characterized by diversity, inclusiveness and efficiency. Although the 193 United Nations Member States represented a variety of regions, nationalities, cultures and beliefs, there was currently a serious imbalance in geographical representation among Organization's staff. Management reform should redress that imbalance, and in particular the underrepresentation of developing countries. Reform should be conducive to results-based management and to comprehensive monitoring before, during and after implementation of action. Restructuring should be
aimed at achieving scientific, effective and efficient management, resolving salient problems in the work of the Secretariat and building a management architecture that facilitated effective implementation of mandates. His delegation had noted the comments and recommendations of the Advisory Committee on the Secretary-General's restructuring proposals, including comments and recommendations on procurement and human resources management, and looked forward to obtaining further information and updates from the Secretariat on that and other matters during the informal consultations.
52. His delegation believed that accountability and internal risk control must be strengthened. Enhanced accountability and internal controls were a prerequisite for decentralization, which must adopt a clear path. Delegation of authority must be subject to enhanced supervision. The existing institutional system should be modified and improved in a timely way, and all bodies must act and operate in strict compliance with rules and regulations. His delegation hoped that the Secretariat would provide further details on the related proposals. The Secretary-General's ambitious vision for management reform encompassed management restructuring but also human resources management, accountability, a global service delivery model and the information and communications technology strategy. While those areas of reform were independent of each other, and separate reports on each were expected, they were interlinked. As the representative of Egypt, speaking on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, had pointed out, the reform effort must be Member-Statedriven, and not subject to artificial time-limits.
53. Ms. Rodriguez Abascal (Cuba) said that her delegation wished to reiterate its support for the Secretary-General's efforts to make the United Nations more agile, efficient and accountable, maintaining a focus on people that would enable it to play a more active role in maintaining peace and promoting development, in strict keeping with its Charter, and with the phrase “we, the peoples of the United Nations” contained in that Charter. The inclusive, open and transparent approach adopted by the Secretary-General and his team was welcome. Her delegation trusted that the same approach would be adopted as the Fifth Committee began the second stage of its consideration of the reform proposals, with respect for intergovernmental due process, and acknowledgement that the Member States were the leaders and custodians of that process.
54. The fact that so many had called for rapid implementation of the Secretary-General's proposals was testament to the fact that they were needed.
18-08725
11/14
A/C.5/72/SR.43
However, the other essential matters before the Committee, including the peacekeeping budgets and related issues, should not be neglected. The commitment to reform was unequivocal, but the Committee should also guarantee the proper functioning of peacekeeping operations, as the time available for their discussion was rapidly running out.
55. Her delegation welcomed the Secretary-General's assurances that the reform proposals were not intended to seek savings within the programme budget. The pursuit of efficiency must not be confused with cutting costs or posts. It was important that the commitment to reform, and to the Organization itself, must go beyond mere words, and be translated into action. Payment of assessments on time and without conditions was vital for the process of reform to be able to move forward without setbacks. In the view of her delegation, it was not possible to demand that the Organization should transform itself, work effectively and fulfil its mandates when contributions were being withheld deliberately.
56. Her delegation regretted the late publication of a number of reports relevant to the reform process, particularly the report on progress towards an accountability system in the United Nations Secretariat. Such delays had become an endemic problem in the Fifth Committee. It also feared that the development of the reform would only be partial in the absence of analysis of the issues of accountability, the information and communications technology strategy, the global service delivery model and a suitable human resources strategy that fully promoted equitable geographical representation throughout the Secretariat.
57. The delegation of Cuba had often indicated that simplification of procedures and the related decentralization of decision-making must be accompanied by a reinforcement of the planning infrastructure and the system of accountability, particularly accountability to the Member States. It wished to recall in that connection the observations of the Advisory Committee on the importance of, and need to know, the outcome of the review of policy and regulatory frameworks, and the comprehensive mapping of the flow of current delegations of authority and assessment of individual capacities that the Department of Management was due to complete in 2018. Achieving a genuine culture of transparency and accountability among Secretariat staff at all levels required that senior managers should be held to account for their shortcomings.
58. The delegation of Cuba had noted the proposals of the Secretary-General and the observations of the Advisory Committee regarding the establishment of a
new Department of Management Strategy, Policy and Compliance and a new Department of Operational Support, and was awaiting the revised estimates relating to the 2018-2019 programme budget and the required changes to the programme plan, so that they could be discussed by the relevant intergovernmental organs.
59. The reform proposals were ambitious, and must therefore be examined in detail by the Member States, so that they could take informed decisions that were in keeping with the decisions made by the General Assembly in its resolution 72/266. The Fifth Committee must act with care and certainty, given the implications for the future of the Organization.
60. Ms. Frolova (Russian Federation) said that her delegation supported the broad direction and approach of the Secretary-General's management reform proposals, whose precise details should be the subject of constructive dialogue between the Secretariat and the Member States. During the implementation of reform, it was vital that the Member States should retain genuine decision-making power over the use of the Organization's financial and human resources.
61. Due attention should be paid to the reasoned and rational observations and recommendations of the Advisory Committee, particularly those emphasizing the aims of the proposed structural changes: more effective mandate implementation and strong accountability at all levels of management in the Secretariat, whether at Headquarters, within departments or in field operations, with defined functions and degrees of authority, in order to avoid duplication of effort and scattered allocation of financial and human resources. The structural changes should also be reflected in a drop in the number of all categories of staff recruitment, and in overall related expenditure.
62. Her delegation welcomed the idea of establishing two new departments, and, noting the recommendations of the Advisory Committee, supported the request for updated information on the resulting effects on the 2018-2019 regular budget and the 2018/19 level of the support account for peacekeeping operations. It cautioned that there appeared to be an obvious duplication of procurement and human resources management functions in the respective areas of authority of the two departments, as well as an issue of dual accountability in the new Office of Information and Communications Technology. It agreed with the Advisory Committee that, for the sake of a fuller view of the financial effects of the Secretary-General's reform package, it would be useful to obtain from the Secretariat additional information on the links between reorganization and ongoing or still-incomplete reform-
12/14
18-08725
A/C.5/72/SR.43
related initiatives, such as the rollout of the Umoja enterprise resource planning system, the implementation of the global service delivery model and the revised information and communications technology strategy.
63. Ms. Medina (Norway) said that her delegation continued to support the Secretary-General's goal of reorganizing the Secretariat's administrative and operational support functions, and welcomed his proposal to establish two new departments with clearly defined responsibilities and divisions of labour. Encouraging the Secretary-General's dedication to streamlining leadership and reducing overlap and cumbersome procedures, it called for standardized policies, compliance frameworks and checks and balances, and for modern technology to be exploited to promote transparency and accountability to the Member States. As the Secretary-General had made clear in his much-appreciated informal briefing on the management reform proposals, held on 22 May 2018, management reform was an enabling factor for other reforms. In order to fulfil agreed mandates, deliver results on the ground, and have more impact in the areas of peace and security, development and human rights, procedures must be simplified and decisions must be decentralized, empowering the leadership and staff of the Organization. The proposed management restructuring was both a starting point for change and a baseline from which to measure progress. Her delegation wished to encourage the Secretary-General to use management reform to develop key global performance indicators, in order to gauge the efficiency of essential administrative functions and support services, such as recruitment and procurement.
64. Norway believed that reform should not be seen as a way to reduce the Organization's budgets. The aim of eliminating time-consuming processes and obsolete procedures was to make the administration more costeffective and efficient, releasing resources that could and should be used to improve the delivery of mandates, and improve substantive outcomes for Member States and people around the world. The time had come for the Committee to authorize the Secretary-General reshape the Organization, and put him and his staff in a position to make genuine changes in its working methods and working culture.
65. Mr. Imada (Japan) said that Japan continued to support the Secretary-General's bold leadership and initiative to effect impactful reform, all three elements of which were seeking to make the Organization more efficient, effective and accountable. In examining the reform proposal, his delegation wished to emphasize that greater accountability and transparency were an
essential basis for the decentralization of decisionmaking and the delegation of authority; they must be evident in streamlined procedures and be made a central principle in the culture of the Organization.
66. Given that the work of the Secretariat was funded by the collective investment of the Member States, and ultimately their taxpayers, his delegation considered it worthwhile for the Secretariat, in addition to making information on the performance of individual programmes available to the Member States via dashboards, to consider making such information available to the general public, where appropriate.
67. Having been a strong supporter of the concept of the global service delivery model since its inception, and believing that it would improve value for money, his delegation looked forward to discussing the related proposal, with a view to seeing it translated into action in January 2019. Japan hoped that it would bring tangible improvements to the efficiency and management of the Secretariat by integrating and streamlining location-independent administrative services into a limited number of service centres.
68. The Secretary-General had provided unprecedented momentum for long-awaited reform of the United Nations. The Member States should seize the opportunity to create a more effective, efficient and accountable Organization by lending unanimous support to the Secretary-General's initiative and reaching decisions at the current part of the resumed seventysecond session to enable him to take action, without allowing bureaucracy or “business as usual” to prevail.
69. Mr. Ximenes Gonclaves (Timor Leste) said that his delegation supported the proposed reform of the Organization's management and peace and security architecture, and of the United Nations development system. It believed that the Secretary-General should be supported, and entrusted with implementing the reforms already approved in principle by the Member States, and that the Member States should give the SecretaryGeneral the means to implement the reforms as an integrated package. It was particularly important to recognize that management reform was connected with, and underpinned, the reform of the peace and security architecture. Removing elements of it individually would at the very least create an imbalance, and would undermine the desired aims.
70. It was important to delegate authority to the field, for the sake of a speedy response. His delegation recalled that the second, transitional, United Nations mission in what was then East Timor had deployed very slowly, despite the desperate need to revive core State functions including public finance, justice and the
18-08725
13/14
A/C.5/72/SR.43
police. The then Special Representative of the Secretary-General had reportedly expressed great frustration at seeing critical needs on the ground which required an immediate response, yet being unable to hire staff directly, having only a limited influence and decision-making power over the mission's budget and lacking control over the mission's administrative functions. A further example of those difficulties had arisen when his country's former president had served as special representative of the Secretary-General in Guinea-Bissau and been unable to arrange street lighting because procurement functions were performed only in New York. Consequently, Timor Leste supported the delegation of authority to the field, enabling local-level determination of how best to use resources to support programme delivery and mandate implementation, and to avoid fragmentation.
71. Mr. Amayo (Kenya) said that his delegation welcomed the willingness of the Secretary-General to fulfil the promise he had made after assuming office to reform the Organization, and called on him to establish the measures necessary to accomplish that task effectively, including organizational readiness in the form of willingness on the part of staff to adapt to change. The intention of the new management paradigm was to empower managers to determine how best to use their resources to support service delivery and mandate implementation. Authority should be delegated in such a way as to hold managers accountable for their performance. However, his delegation recalled that the Board of Auditors had described the current framework for delegation of authority as relatively weak. The General Assembly should monitor progress in that regard continuously.
72. Success in addressing the existing leadership and management-culture challenges - emphasizing results rather than processes, paying greater attention to risk management and mitigation, establishing key performance indicators and developing talent through learning and performance management - depended on holding managers to high standards of accountability. Effective implementation of mandates and exercise of the General Assembly's rightful oversight role also depended on successful review of the current policy and regulatory frameworks. His delegation trusted that the establishment of two new departments would streamline the implementation of the decisions of various United Nations organs, including the Security Council, General Assembly and Economic and Social Council.
73. His delegation believed that the streamlining of supply-chain management processes and procedures could result in better value for money. It urged careful and strategic management of human resources, and
awaited further details of the proposals made by the Secretary-General in that regard. It understood the potential for scalability of certain functions, but called for the application of that concept in the proposed Department of Operational Support to remain responsive to that Department's structure. The scalability process should not be implemented as a way to reduce budgets or abolish posts.
The meeting rose at 12.25 p.m.
14/14
18-08725