United Nations
A/C.5/71/SR.4
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
Official Records
Distr.: General 20 October 2016
Original: English
Fifth Committee
Summary record of the 4th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Tuesday, 11 October 2016, at 10 a.m.
Chair: Ms. King (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines)
Chair of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions: Mr. Ruiz Massieu
Contents
Agenda item 145: Administration of justice at the United Nations
Agenda item 139: Human resources management
Implementation of the new common system compensation package in the United Nations Secretariat
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Control Unit (srcorrections@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
16-17601 (E)
III III I IIIllllllllllllllllllll
A/C.5/71/SR.4
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 145: Administration of justice at the United Nations (A/71/62/Rev.1, A/71/117, A/71/117/Corr.1, A/71/117/Add.1, A/71/157, A/71/158, A/71/163, A/71/164 and A/71/436)
1. Ms. Taylor (Executive Director, Office of Administration of Justice), introducing the report of the Secretary-General on the findings and recommendations of the Interim Independent Assessment Panel on the system of administration of justice at the United Nations, and revised estimates relating to the programme budget for the biennium 2016-2017 (A/71/163), said that the report had been submitted pursuant to General Assembly resolution 69/203, wherein the Assembly had decided that an interim independent assessment of all aspects of the system of administration of justice, including an analysis whether the aims and objectives of the system set out in General Assembly resolution 61/261 were being achieved in an efficient and cost-effective manner, should be conducted, with the goal of improving the current system. Prepared in consultation with stakeholders, including staff, the report contained the Secretary-General's comments and recommendations relating to the report of the Interim Independent Assessment Panel (A/71/62/Rev.1), together with estimates of the resources required to implement his recommendations for enhancement of the system. Overall, the Secretary-General shared the Panel's view that the system's objectives had largely been met and that it represented an improvement over the previous system.
2. The Secretary-General concurred with the Panel's recommendations to appoint three additional permanent judges to the United Nations Dispute Tribunal to replace the ad litem judges, together with the necessary supporting staff, in order to enable the Tribunal to stay abreast of its caseload without undermining judicial independence; to increase the mobility of the Dispute Tribunal by conducting hearings in the field, in order to enhance decentralization, transparency and access to justice; to provide summaries of Dispute Tribunal and Appeals Tribunal judgments to serve as jurisprudential guides, with a view to enhancing access to justice, especially for self-represented staff members; to encourage the use of mediation to resolve disputes; to train managers
in conflict management; and to review the Tribunals' referral for accountability power in a process under the auspices of the Internal Justice Council.
3. The Secretary-General also concurred with the Panel that the Management Evaluation Unit, the Office of Staff Legal Assistance and the United Nations Appeals Tribunal Registry were underresourced and made specific recommendations to address that situation and improve the system's efficiency, fairness and effectiveness. Likewise, with regard to the Appeals Tribunal, he recommended establishing remuneration for judicial work relating to interlocutory motions and the administrative work of the President, with a view to reducing the Tribunal's heavy workload. In addition, he recommended amending the statute of the Dispute Tribunal by expanding the list of qualifications for judges to include impartiality and written and oral fluency in either English or French, in order to align it with the statute of the Appeals Tribunal, and by empowering the President of the Dispute Tribunal to monitor the timely delivery of judgments. The timelines for some of the Secretary-General's recommendations were subject to change based on decisions to be taken by the General Assembly, and alternative recommendations were also proposed in some cases to ensure consistency with such decisions. Lastly, the Secretary-General did not concur with certain of the Panel's recommendations and advised that some recommendations should be submitted for the Tribunals' consideration.
4. Introducing the report of the Secretary-General on the administration of justice at the United Nations (A/71/164), she said that the report contained observations on the functioning of the formal justice system in 2015 based on the experience of United Nations departments, offices and entities, as well as information and statistics on their activities during that year and since the system had commenced operation in 2009. It also provided a consolidated response to the requests made by the General Assembly in its resolution 70/112.
5. Section II of the report contained a number of observations on operational trends in the system. A link had again been observed between decisions affecting large numbers of staff and recourse to the formal system in the form of clustered or group applications. In particular, in 2015, retrenchment exercises in the
2/10
16-17601
A/C.5/71/SR.4
field had resulted in an increase in the requests for management evaluation by staff from the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUSCO) and the African Union-United Nations Hybrid Operation in Darfur (UNAMID), consistent with the upward trend in the number of such requests from staff in peacekeeping and special political missions since 2013. The overall number of management evaluation requests had nevertheless decreased in 2015. The increase in the number of applications received by the Dispute Tribunal in 2015 could be attributed to the submission of a group of applications by staff affected by a temporary remuneration freeze imposed in connection with a periodic salary survey and of another group of applications by staff from MONUSCO as a result of the abolition of posts. Similarly, the number of appeals to the Appeals Tribunal had increased as a result of the submission of appeals contesting judgments issued by the Dispute Tribunal in 2014 in connection with a previous group of applications relating to the periodic salary survey. The number of self-represented staff before the Appeals Tribunal had increased, while the number of staff representing themselves in cases before the Dispute Tribunal had decreased. Requests for legal assistance received by the Office of Staff Legal Assistance had increased. In addition, there had been an increase in the number of applications received by the Administrative Law Section, which represented the Secretary-General before the Dispute Tribunal, as well as an increase in the number of submissions filed with the Appeals Tribunal by the Office of Legal Affairs, the Secretary-General's legal representative before the Appeals Tribunal. A significant number of applications had been resolved without the need for adjudication on the merits, owing to continued efforts to resolve disputes informally. Lastly, section II provided statistics and information on the activities of the various entities involved in the formal system.
6. Section III of the report provided responses to specific requests by the General Assembly and the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions, including information on recourse to the system by non-staff personnel in 2015; progress made in implementing the recommendations to address systemic and cross-cutting issues contained in the Secretary-General's report on the activities of the Office of the United Nations Ombudsman and
Mediation Services (A/71/157); the promulgation of revised terms of reference and guidelines for that Office; the outcomes of matters involving the accountability of managers in confirmed cases of gross negligence; the effectiveness of the Management Evaluation Unit; the voluntary supplemental funding mechanism for additional resources for the Office of Staff Legal Assistance; the proposed single code of conduct for all legal representatives appearing before the Tribunals; and the implications of the General Assembly's amendments to the Tribunals' statutes for the disposition of appeals of orders issued by the Dispute Tribunal.
7. Section V drew attention to the resource requirements arising from the Panel's report, outlined in the report of the Secretary-General (A/71/163), and Section VI set out the Secretary-General's conclusions and recommendations for action to be taken by the General Assembly. The annexes to the report contained additional information cross-referenced in the relevant sections of the report.
8. Lastly, she drew the Committee's attention to the report of the Internal Justice Council on the administration of justice at the United Nations (A/71/158), which included the Council's views and recommendations on the justice system and its observations on the Panel's report. Annexes IV and V to the Council's report set out the views of the judges of the Appeals Tribunal and the Dispute Tribunal, respectively, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 70/112.
9. Ms. Mendez (Office of the United Nations Ombudsman and Mediation Services), introducing the report of the Secretary-General on the activities of the Office of the United Nations Ombudsman and Mediation Services in 2015 (A/71/157), said that, in addition to its efforts to address conflicts worldwide, the United Nations must focus on resolving conflict within the Organization itself, as underscored by the Secretary-General. Such conflict could be resolved constructively through various means, including informal processes, which addressed the underlying causes of conflict by helping to clarify interests and needs, resolve differences, restore working relationships and create a harmonious workplace. For the more than 50 per cent of Secretariat staff serving in field missions, high-stress work environments, often
16-17601
3/10
A/C.5/71/SR.4
compounded by difficult interpersonal dynamics, conditions of service in the field and entrenched operational processes and practices, frequently contributed to conflict and grievances. Her Office was committed to assisting with conflict prevention, management and resolution to enhance staff resilience and capacity to focus on the task at hand.
10. The report provided an update on the Office's efforts to provide dispute resolution services to all staff, including managers; conduct outreach and activities to promote conflict competence; and identify systemic issues within the Organization. In 2015, the Office had provided assistance in over 2,500 cases in total and had recorded 78 mediation cases, representing increases of 13 per cent and 22 per cent, respectively, compared with 2014. Those trends indicated an encouraging awareness of the role of mediation in limiting and preventing conflict escalation. A number of systemic issues had been identified, including administrative delays and unresponsiveness; the need to strengthen investigations; and the need to emphasize good planning and communication practices during mission downsizing. The Office had continued to focus on promoting conflict competence among staff, with a view to strengthening conflict management, prevention and personal resilience. In that connection, the Office had conducted more than 360 outreach activities around the world, including 146 skill -building workshops, training activities and information sessions.
11. A core aspect of the Office's mandate was to provide staff, particularly those serving in peacekeeping and special political missions, with easy access to informal conflict resolution services. In-person intervention was especially effective in building trust in cases involving highly sensitive issues, particularly in field environments. On average, since 2010, roughly half of the total number of cases had emanated from field missions, reflecting a consistent demand for the Office's services that could be partly attributed to its efforts to increase access to those services.
12. To ensure that workplace conflict did not detract from their substantive work, effective organizations learned from their experiences and improved their policies, processes and practices on an ongoing basis. In particular, respect for all those serving the organization, which could be fostered through small
but meaningful acts, should be a priority for staff and managers alike. In that regard, she acknowledged the support of the General Assembly and the Secretary General for the Office's efforts to create a more harmonious workplace within the United Nations and transform its way of doing business with a view to enhancing its constructive role in the world.
13. Mr. Ruiz Massieu (Chair of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions), introducing the related report of the Advisory Committee (A/71/436), said that, with regard to the revised estimates for 2016 -2017 set out in the Secretary-General's report (A/71/163), no case had been made for the immediate and exceptional consideration of additional funding for the system of administration of justice outside the cycle of the normal budget process and the Advisory Committee therefore recommended against the approval of the proposed resource requirements. The Advisory Committee provided specific observations on a number of the Secretary-General's proposals in Section II of its report.
14. With regard to the Secretary-General's report on the administration of justice (A/71/164), the SecretaryGeneral could provide, in his annual report on the administration of justice, comments on the recommendations relating to systemic issues contained in the report on the activities of the Office of the United Nations Ombudsman and Mediation Services for the same session; he should therefore do so in the context of his next annual report on the subject. Lastly, the Advisory Committee stressed the importance of the informal justice system in taking early action to prevent or limit litigation.
15. Mr. Chamlongrasdr (Thailand), speaking on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, said that the Group attached great importance to the administration of justice as an integral part of effective human resources management and an accountability tool. While the Group agreed that the current system had largely achieved its objectives and was thus an improvement over the previous system, it welcomed the Panel's recommendations for further improvements. Noting the proposed revised estimates in the amount of $2,502,800 relating to their implementation, the Group would consider each of the Panel's recommendations, as well as the related
4/10
16-17601
A/C.5/71/SR.4
comments of the Secretary-General, in the light of the General Assembly's decision in paragraph 4 of its resolution 61/261.
16. The Group would consider the recommendations provided in the report of the Joint Inspection Unit (JIU) (A/71/117 and A/71/117/Corr.1) in conjunction with those of the Interim Independent Assessment Panel and looked forward to the letter from the Chair of the Sixth Committee on the legal aspects of the administration of justice. Noting the continued increase in the applications received by the system, the Group emphasized the need to foster a dialogue -oriented culture within the Organization, particularly in view of ongoing developments such as the implementation of the common system compensation package, in order to prevent potential conflict.
17. The Group noted with satisfaction the promulgation of the revised terms of reference and guidelines for the Office of the United Nations Ombudsman and Mediation Services; the proposal of a single code of conduct for all legal representatives; and the availability of adequate courtrooms for the Dispute Tribunal and the Appeals Tribunal, in line with General Assembly resolution 70/112. It would seek further information on, inter alia, the experimental voluntary supplemental funding mechanism, in informal consultations.
18. Acknowledging the contribution of all stakeholders involved in the operations of the formal and informal justice system since 2009, he emphasized the need to implement the recommendations of the Interim Independent Assessment Panel with a view to strengthening the system.
19. Ms. Pilleri (Observer for the European Union), speaking also on behalf of Albania, Montenegro, Serbia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Turkey; the stabilization and association process country Bosnia and Herzegovina; and, in addition, Armenia, Georgia and the Republic of Moldova, stressed the importance of the timely and simultaneous issuance of all required documentation in all official languages, as that was vital to achieving the inclusivity and transparency needed to help the Committee successfully conclude its negotiations. Her delegation therefore regretted that the report of the Advisory Committee (A/71/436) had been issued only 24 hours prior to the introduction of the related agenda item. In
that regard, the Bureau of the Fifth Committee should stand ready, as necessary, to postpone the introduction of upcoming agenda items to avoid similar situations during the remainder of the session.
20. The European Union welcomed in particular the examination of the formal and informal justice systems provided in the Panel's report (A/71/62/Rev.1) and agreed that the current system represented an improvement over its predecessor. While noting its strengthened performance and capacity to deliver measurable benefits for staff, she stressed the need to implement recommendations aimed at improving its internal operations and efficiency, particularly with a view to ensuring that it embodied the principles of independency, transparency and professionalism. The Advisory Committee's comments on the need for further analysis and internal evaluation in examining requests for additional resources and for expanding the capacity of the internal justice system also merited close consideration.
21. Her delegation was encouraged by the emphasis on outreach aimed at raising staff awareness of informal dispute resolution, a vital component of the justice system that expanded access to the system while reducing the need for expensive procedures and time-consuming litigation. In that regard, efforts could be undertaken to strengthen conflict prevention and enhance access to information before cases were brought before the formal system. Lastly, the General Assembly should ensure that initiatives to improve the justice system took into account the Organization's broader human and financial resource requirements and corresponded to actual needs and clear qualitative outputs that were consistent with the system's objectives.
22. Ms. Baumann (Switzerland), speaking also on behalf of Liechtenstein, said that she looked forward to reviewing the letter from the Chair of the Sixth Committee on the legal aspects of the administration of justice.
23. Efforts to ensure that the justice system was adequately resourced and to improve the frameworks governing justice processes and personnel management were essential to strengthening the system's functioning and reducing the number of complaints. In that regard, she supported the Secretary-General's requests for additional posts and resources in response
16-17601
5/10
A/C.5/71/SR.4
to the Panel's recommendations; the recommendations of the Internal Justice Council and the Panel regarding the need for a clear and effective regulatory framework for staff members; and the recommendations that focused more broadly on the need for improved policies, processes and investigation procedures to promote efficiency and reduce the number of cases and the costs of the system.
24. Noting with concern that 45 per cent of the Organization's workforce did not have access to the internal justice system, she endorsed the Panel's recommendation to extend access to all personnel, irrespective of their status as staff or non-staff. In view of the Secretary-General's concern at the cost increase that would result from nearly doubling the number of individuals with access to the system, she urged the General Assembly to invite him to present alternative options to ensure that non-staff personnel had access to effective remedies.
25. Given the importance of ensuring the safety of staff reporting misconduct for upholding the Organization's standards of professionalism and integrity, it was regrettable that the formal system did not provide staff with adequate tools to respond to retaliation. In particular, the failure of the Ethics Office to guarantee proper protection for victims of retaliation left them no suitable alternative recourse, a situation that must be remedied. Commending the work of the Office of the United Nations Ombudsman and Mediation Services and its observations on systemic issues of conflict, she stressed the need for the Office, as an entity with direct access to the Organization's legislative bodies, to report to those bodies on such issues, as recommended by JIU.
26. Mr. Fukuda (Japan) welcomed the Panel's timely and comprehensive review, as well as its recommendations, some of which required further consideration by the General Assembly. While the reformed system had contributed to enhancing the accountability and credibility of the United Nations, certain recommended improvements, including the regularization of the experimental voluntary supplemental funding mechanism and of the position of the ad litem judges, should be considered on an individual basis as the system stabilized.
27. Given that many cases before the justice system resulted from poor communication or
misunderstandings of human resources policies, fostering cooperation and direct communication, as well as developing clear and consistent human resources policies, would be critical for avoiding unnecessary litigation and creating a positive work environment. In addition, while all staff members were entitled to the right to appeal, the advantages and disadvantages of appealing with regard to career development and reputation should be clarified to both management and staff. In that regard, the Office of the United Nations Ombudsman and Mediation Services should work in conjunction with other human resources offices and departments over the long term to bridge the gap between rhetoric and reality with respect to the functioning of, and culture surrounding, the justice system. As a reliable method of recourse in cases that could not be resolved at earlier stages of mediation, the system aimed to promote a harmonious work environment conducive to the effective implementation of the Organization's programmes and projects in fulfilment of its mandates.
28. Ms. Norman Chalet (United States of America) welcomed the justice system's increased independence, transparency, professionalism, decentralization and capacity to address its caseload, as noted by the Panel. Despite the success of efforts undertaken since 2009 to improve managerial accountability for decisions taken and empower staff to seek redress, ongoing improvements to both the formal and informal components of the system should be made, building on experiences to date.
29. Considering the reports of the Panel and of the Secretary-General in the broader context of human resources management would allow the Committee to strengthen the transparency and accountability of the Organization, as well as to streamline the human resources management framework with a view to preventing disputes. In that regard, she welcomed the work of the Office of the United Nations Ombudsman and Mediation Services to streamline and rationalize the administration of justice and encouraged further exploration of ways to leverage the informal system to avoid unnecessary litigation. She also concurred with the Panel that management evaluations contributed to increased transparency in decision-making and a better understanding of regulations, rules and procedures among managers. In that regard, while noting the Secretary-General's initiatives to promote clear
6/10
16-17601
A/C.5/71/SR.4
communication and explanation of the Organization's regulations, rules and administrative decisions, she encouraged further efforts to increase outreach and promote awareness of such policies among staff members serving in the field; train managers in best practices and staff in the regulatory framework; and communicate new and revised policies in a timely and effective manner.
30. Her delegation had reservations about extending access to the internal justice system to non-staff personnel, as the nearly twofold increase in individuals covered by the system would require doubling the number of judges, staff and lawyers. In addition, the system would have to assume and adjudicate the various legal frameworks relating to non-staff categories, in which would have significant legal and financial implications. Emphasizing that contracts and other agreements with non-staff personnel should provide clear information on dispute resolution, she encouraged the Secretary-General to continue to disseminate information with regard to available support for non-staff involved in disputes. Lastly, she encouraged prioritization of tangible reforms that would result in real improvements to the administration of justice, with a view to strengthening the Organization's approach to human resources management.
Agenda item 139: Human resources management
Implementation of the new common system compensation package in the United Nations Secretariat (A/70/896, A/70/896/Corr.l and A/70/961)
31. Mr. Kisob (Office of Human Resources Management), introducing the Secretary-General's note on the implementation of the new common system compensation package in the United Nations Secretariat (A/70/896 and A/70/896/Corr.l), said that the General Assembly, in its resolution 70/244, had approved changes to the compensation package for staff in the Professional and higher categories, to come into force on 1 July 2016, including a modification of the eligibility requirement for the repatriation grant, changes to relocation-related elements and changes to field allowances and benefits, including the hardship allowance, the additional hardship allowance, the mobility allowance and accelerated home leave travel.
In the resolution, the Assembly had further decided that the proposed unified base/floor salary scale structure should come into force on 1 January 2017 and that the changes to the education grant should come into force for the school year in progress as at 1 January 2018.
32. The amendments to the Staff Regulations required for 1 July 2016 had been approved by the General Assembly in its resolution 70/256, and the provisional staff rules required for 1 July 2016, together with additional amendments required to the Staff Regulations and Rules for 1 January 2017, were set out in the Secretary-General's report on amendments to the Staff Regulations and Rules (A/71/258), which was before the Committee at the current session. Amendments required for 1 January 2018 would be submitted to the Assembly at its seventy-second session. Overall, the Secretariat's policy framework was or would be ready to proceed with implementation of all the changes by the effective dates mandated by the General Assembly.
33. As at 1 July 2016, the Secretariat had implemented the majority of elements of the new compensation package under phase 1 of the implementation schedule. However, owing to the need for testing and data clean-up, two elements under that phase were outstanding: the introduction of the mobility incentive in lieu of the mobility allowance and the discontinuation of the non-removal element. They would be implemented on 1 November 2016 and would apply retroactively. Further, owing to the complexity of the computer coding required for the implementation of the new unified base/floor salary scale, the technical solution would not be operational until 1 September 2017. The remaining changes to the compensation package due to come into force on 1 January 2018 would be implemented for the school year in progress as at 1 January 2018. The Secretary General's note provided a summary of the technical and operational challenges faced by the Secretariat that were causing unavoidable delays in implementing some of the elements of the new compensation package.
34. The delay was attributable not to the vendor of the enterprise resource planning (ERP) system but rather to the complexity in the computer coding of some elements of the compensation package, which
16-17601
7/10
A/C.5/71/SR.4
meant that the technical solution would be delivered by the vendor without sufficient lead time for the Secretariat to conduct all the required predeployment activities, including extensive technical testing of the new solution.
35. The changes to the new unified salary scale and related dependency allowances scheduled for 1 January 2017 would affect most lines in the monthly payslips of internationally recruited staff in the Professional and higher categories and in the Field Service category. The high risk of inaccuracies could result in increased legal and financial liabilities for the Organization. In order to mitigate that risk, the Secretariat must implement the new compensation package with as few technical problems as possible.
36. Since the issuance of the Secretary-General's note, the Secretariat had gathered additional inputs from the International Civil Service Commission (ICSC) and the United Nations Joint Staff Pension Board, and, through close collaboration with the vendor, it had identified an interim mitigation solution that would allow it to implement the unified scale as of 1 January 2017, as mandated by the General Assembly, thereby obviating the need for any adjustment of the implementation date. In addition, the interim mitigation solution would minimize discrepancies between the monthly net pay that staff members should receive and the amount that they would actually receive during the interim period (1 January to 31 August 2017). Recalculation would still be needed but with limited adjustments to staff members' net pay, thereby reducing the risk of legal and financial liabilities and eliminating potential issues for the United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund. The Secretariat would provide more details on the interim mitigation solution during informal consultations and looked forward to a decision by the General Assembly that would help the Secretariat to address potential litigation from staff members during the interim period. The steps being taken by the Secretariat, including the interim mitigation solution, would not have any impact on the expected savings associated with the various elements of the package that had been reported by the Secretary-General in his statement on the financial implications of the recommendations of ICSC (A/C.5/70/3).
37. Mr. Ruiz Massieu (Chair of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions), introducing the related report of the Advisory Committee (A/70/961), said that, as the Advisory Committee had considered the implementation of the new common system compensation package at its previous session, some of its comments might have been overtaken by the new developments just presented by the Secretariat. In its report, the Advisory Committee recognized the challenges faced by the Secretariat in the implementation of the new package but stated that it was not fully convinced that it was operationally not possible to implement the package while maintaining the mandated effective dates and considered that alternative options should be explored for implementing the changes with retroactivity. In that connection, he welcomed the mitigation measures announced by the Secretariat and trusted that further information would be provided in due course. Lastly, the Advisory Committee stressed the importance of maintaining coherence among United Nations common system organizations in the implementation of the new compensation package.
38. Ms. Wairatpanij (Thailand), speaking on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, said that the Group reaffirmed its support for the ICSC proposals on the common system compensation package and noted with concern the delays in implementing some of the elements of the package for staff in the Professional and higher categories owing to technical and operational challenges. The Group recognized the importance of the common system and noted that the Commission had taken three years to complete its comprehensive review of the compensation package in consultation with all interested parties and stakeholders, including representatives of United Nations agencies, funds and programmes. While recognizing the complexity of the issues involved, the Group hoped that the Secretariat would continue its efforts to find a practical solution that would allow the compensation package to be implemented as mandated by the General Assembly, with due regard for staff benefits and entitlements. The Group welcomed the interim mitigation solution announced by the Secretariat and looked forward to receiving information in writing for informal consultations.
8/10
16-17601
A/C.5/71/SR.4
39. Mr. Abdallah (Chad), speaking on behalf of the Group of African States, said that the Group reaffirmed its strong support for the transformation initiatives that were enabling the Organization to deliver its mandate in the most efficient and effective manner. The Group also remained committed to the implementation of the new compensation package, as approved by the General Assembly, and was therefore seriously concerned about the delays in the implementation schedule. The Group noted the Secretariat's explanation of the reasons for the delays and the revised implementation dates and called for additional efforts by all stakeholders to ensure that the obstacles were overcome as a matter of priority while preserving all staff benefits. The Group also encouraged the Secretary-General to undertake an outreach exercise in order to inform staff of the challenges faced and the expected dates of solutions. The Group looked forward to further guidance on the matter from the Secretariat during informal consultations.
40. Ms. Csernelhazi (Observer for the European Union) said that the European Union recognized the challenges faced by the Secretariat in the implementation of the new compensation package for staff in the Professional and higher categories. It was therefore encouraged to learn that a solution to the problem had been identified that respected the mandated implementation dates and also limited the need to recalculate payments to staff. The solution should be implemented in the most efficient and effective manner while maintaining coherence among United Nations common system organizations. Furthermore, the Secretary-General should ensure that the new compensation package was implemented in full compliance with the mandated effective dates set out in Assembly resolution 70/244 and that staff were kept fully informed of developments.
41. Mr. Fukuda (Japan) said that the Secretariat had a responsibility to implement fully the United Nations common system of salaries, allowances and other conditions of service. His delegation was concerned that the delay in the implementation of the new common system compensation package in the United Nations Secretariat would affect the application of the Staff Regulations and Rules by other United Nations organizations, which might not introduce new compensation packages even though many of them had been addressing the need for appropriate modifications
to their operational compensation systems and were in a position to implement them as scheduled.
42. Good operational systems were essential for good management of policy. However, the Secretariat must make every effort to implement the resolutions of the General Assembly through its policies and should refrain from requesting a delay without offering an alternative proposal for appropriate implementation, including retroactive adjustment as necessary. His delegation welcomed the interim mitigation solution just proposed by the Secretariat and looked forward to considering it at a later stage.
43. Mr. Kalugin (Russian Federation) said that the changes to the common system compensation package approved by the General Assembly in its resolution 70/244 constituted the first large-scale reform for 25 years, affecting all the main elements of the package and making it more flexible, fair and effective. At the same time, the package remained attractive for staff, ensuring competitive conditions of service in common system organizations in comparison with public and private sector institutions, which also had an interest in hiring highly qualified professionals.
44. The adoption of the resolution had been preceded by intensive efforts by delegations, including his own, to reach consensus on specific arrangements for the new compensation package and a timeline for its implementation. His delegation was therefore deeply disappointed that the Organization was unable to fulfil the requirements of resolution 70/244 in a timely manner. During the discussions on the new compensation package in December 2015, Member States had actively consulted with Secretariat representatives on all the major aspects of implementation, including the timeline for the introduction of the three main elements of the package. In that context, his delegation did not understand why the Secretary-General's note setting out the proposal to delay the reform of the compensation system had not been issued until May 2016, five and a half months after the package had been approved. His delegation was also seriously concerned that the proposal would lead to a lost budgetary benefit: the maximum saving that should be achieved after final implementation of the new compensation package would be delayed for a year, and that year would be lost forever.
16-17601
9/10
A/C.5/71/SR.4
45. The General Assembly's resolution should be implemented in full and without delay. In that connection, his delegation recalled the conclusion of ICSC that a decision to delay the transition to the new compensation package in the United Nations Secretariat would create a significant imbalance within the common system and would lead to differences in conditions of service among its organizations.
46. Bearing in mind the Advisory Committee's recommendations and the information provided by the Secretariat, his delegation stood ready to consider alternative options for resolving the problem, but stressed the need for cost-neutrality. Any additional expenditure that might arise from alternative options would have to be covered from existing resources.
47. Ms. Maciel Gonzalez (Paraguay), reaffirming her delegation's support for the ICSC proposals concerning the common system compensation package, said that her delegation had been actively involved in the negotiations on that matter over the past three years with a view to ensuring that the opinions of all interested parties were taken into account and that an appropriate timetable for implementation was established. While her delegation recognized the complexity of the changes involved, it was concerned at the delays in implementing some of the elements of the new package owing to technical and operational challenges and hoped that the Secretariat would draw lessons from the experience so as to be able to prepare appropriately for future undertakings of a similar nature. Her delegation also hoped that the Secretariat would continue to seek a prompt and practical solution for the implementation of the package, in full compliance with the mandate established by the General Assembly and with due account taken of staff benefits and rights, and looked forward to receiving further details of the interim mitigation solution just announced.
48. Ms. Norman Chalet (United States of America) said that her delegation appreciated the Secretariat's efforts to abide by the timelines mandated by the General Assembly for the implementation of the new compensation package and welcomed the new information provided at the current meeting. Her delegation looked forward to consulting on the next steps to be taken.
The meeting rose at 11.35 a.m.
10/10
16-17601