United Nations
A/C.5/71/SR.39
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
Official Records
Distr.: General 2 August 2017
Original: English
Fifth Committee
Summary record of the 39th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Thursday, 29 June 2017, at 3 p.m.
Chair: Ms. King (St. Vincent and the Grenadines)
Chair of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions: Mr. Ruiz Massieu
Contents
Agenda item 132: Financial reports and audited financial statements, and reports of the Board of Auditors (continued)
Agenda item 149: Administrative and budgetary aspects of the financing of the United Nations peacekeeping operations (continued)
Regional Service Centre in Entebbe, Uganda (continued)
United Nations Logistics Base at Brindisi, Italy (continued)
Support account for peacekeeping operations (continued)
Triennial review of the rates and standards for reimbursement to Member States for contingent-owned equipment (continued)
Special measures for protection from sexual exploitation and sexual abuse (continued)
Agenda item 150: Financing of the United Nations Interim Security Force for Abyei (continued)
Agenda item 151: Financing of the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic (continued)
Agenda item 152: Financing of the United Nations Operation in Cote d'Ivoire (continued)
Agenda item 153: Financing of the United Nations Peacekeeping Force in Cyprus (continued)
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Management Section (dms@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
17-10925 (E)
I mill I III HI III 925*
A/C.5/71/SR.39
Agenda item 154: Financing of the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (continued)
Agenda item 156: Financing of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti (continued)
Agenda item 157: Financing of the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (continued)
Agenda item 158: Financing of the United Nations Mission in Liberia (continued)
Agenda item 159: Financing of the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali (continued)
Agenda item 160: Financing of the United Nations peacekeeping forces in the Middle East (continued)
(a) United Nations Disengagement Observer Force (continued)
(b) United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (continued)
Agenda item 161: Financing of the United Nations Mission in South Sudan (continued)
Agenda item 162: Financing of the United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara (continued)
Agenda item 163: Financing of the African Union-United Nations Hybrid Operation in Darfur (continued)
Agenda item 164: Financing of activities arising from Security Council resolution 1863 (2009) (continued)
Agenda item 133: Review of the efficiency and the administrative and financial functioning of the United Nations (continued)
Questions deferred for future consideration
Other matters
Completion of the work of the Fifth Committee at the second part of the resumed seventy-first session of the General Assembly
2/11
17-10925
A/C.5/71/SR.39
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.
1. The Chair informed the Committee that some of the draft resolutions and decisions to be introduced had only recently been adopted informally, and were thus provisional and available in English only. With full regard for the resolutions of the General Assembly on multilingualism, she acknowledged the Committee's flexibility in proceeding on that basis so as to conclude its work at the second part of the resumed session.
Agenda item 132: Financial reports and audited financial statements, and reports of the Board of Auditors (continued) (A/C.5/71/L.30)
Draft resolution A/C.5/71/L.30: Financial reports and audited financial statements, and reports of the Board of Auditors
2. Draft resolution A/C.5/71/L.30 was adopted.
Agenda item 149: Administrative and budgetary aspects of the financing of the United Nations peacekeeping operations (continued)
Regional Service Centre in Entebbe, Uganda (continued) (A/C.5/71/L.47)
Draft resolution A/C.5/71/L.47: Financing of the Regional Service Centre in Entebbe, Uganda
3. Draft resolution A/C.5/71/L.47 was adopted.
United Nations Logistics Base at Brindisi, Italy (continued) (A/C.5/71/L.48)
Draft resolution A/C.5/71/L.48: Financing of the United Nations Logistics Base at Brindisi, Italy
4. Draft resolution A/C.5/71/L.48 was adopted.
Support account for peacekeeping operations (continued) (A/C.5/71/L.49)
Draft resolution A/C.5/71/L.49: Support account for peacekeeping operations
5. Draft resolution A/C.5/71/L.49 was adopted.
Triennial review of the rates and standards for reimbursement to Member States for contingent owned equipment (continued) (A/C.5/71/L.50)
Draft resolution A/C.5/71/L50: Triennial review of the rates and standards for reimbursement to Member States for contingent-owned equipment
6. Draft resolution A/C.5/71/L.50 was adopted.
Special measures for protection from sexual exploitation and sexual abuse (continued) (A/C.5/71/L.51)
Draft resolution A/C.5/71/L.51: Special measures for protection from sexual exploitation and sexual abuse
7. Draft resolution A/C.5/71/L.51 was adopted.
Agenda item 150: Financing of the United Nations Interim Security Force for Abyei
(continued) (A/C.5/71/L.33)
Draft resolution A/C.5/71/L.33: Financing of the United Nations Interim Security Force for Abyei
8. Draft resolution A/C.5/71/L.33 was adopted.
Agenda item 151: Financing of the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic
(continued) (A/C.5/71/L.38)
Draft resolution A/C.5/71/L.38: Financing of the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic
9. Draft resolution A/C.5/71/L.38 was adopted.
Agenda item 152: Financing of the United Nations Operation in Cote d'Ivoire
(continued) (A/C.5/71/L.41)
Draft resolution A/C.5/71/L.41: Financing of the United Nations Operation in Cote d'Ivoire
10. Draft resolution A/C.5/71/L.41 was adopted.
Agenda item 153: Financing of the United Nations Peacekeeping Force in Cyprus
(continued) (A/C.5/71/L.39)
Draft resolution A/C.5/71/L.39: Financing of the United Nations Peacekeeping Force in Cyprus
11. Draft resolution A/C.5/71/L.39 was adopted.
Agenda item 154: Financing of the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo
(continued) (A/C.5/71/L.42)
Draft resolution A/C.5/71/L.42: Financing of the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo
12. Draft resolution A/C.5/71/L.42 was adopted.
17-10925
3/11
A/C.5/71/SR.39
Agenda item 156: Financing of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti
(continued) (A/C.5/71/L.40)
Draft resolution A/C.5/71/L.40: Financing of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti
13. Draft resolution A/C.5/71/L.40 was adopted.
Agenda item 157: Financing of the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo
(continued) (A/C.5/71/L.34)
Draft resolution A/C.5/71/L.34: Financing of the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo
14. Draft resolution A/C.5/71/L.34 was adopted.
Agenda item 158: Financing of the United Nations Mission in Liberia (continued) (A/C.5/71/L.43)
Draft resolution A/C.5/71/L.43: Financing of the United Nations Mission in Liberia
15. Draft resolution A/C.5/71/L.43 was adopted.
Agenda item 159: Financing of the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali (continued) (A/C.5/71/L.44)
Draft resolution A/C.5/71/L.44: Financing of the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali
16. Draft resolution A/C.5/71/L.44 was adopted.
Agenda item 160: Financing of the United Nations peacekeeping forces in the Middle East (continued)
(a) United Nations Disengagement Observer Force
(continued) (A/C.5/71/L.46)
Draft resolution A/C.5/71/L.46: Financing of the United Nations Disengagement Observer Force
17. Draft resolution A/C.5/71/L.46 was adopted.
(b) United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon
(continued) (A/C.5/71/L.31)
Draft resolution A/C.5/71/L.31: Financing of the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon
18. Ms. Pereira Sotomayor (Ecuador), speaking on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, said that a new paragraph should be inserted in the draft resolution, to read:
“Recalls paragraph 36 of the report of the Advisory Committee and decides to apply a
vacancy rate of 40.4 per cent and 7.5 per cent to estimate the requirements for National Professional Officers and national General Service staff for the 2017/18 period respectively.”
19. Ms. Van Buerle (Secretary of the Committee) said that, in paragraph 15, line two, the total amount should read “513,534,300 dollars”; the second blank in paragraph 15 should read “483,000,000 dollars”; the third blank should read “24,426,600 dollars”; and the fourth blank should read “6,107,700 dollars”.
20. In paragraph 16, line one, the amount should read “85,589,050 dollars”.
21. In paragraph 17, line four, the share in the Tax Equalization Fund should read “2,473,330 dollars”; the second blank in paragraph 17 should read “2,040,030 dollars”; the third blank should read “355,130 dollars”; and the fourth blank should read “78,170 dollars”.
22. In paragraph 18, line two, the amount should read “427,945,250 dollars”; and the second blank in paragraph 18 should read “42,794,525 dollars”.
23. In paragraph 19, line four, the share in the Tax Equalization Fund should read “12,366,670 dollars”; the second blank in paragraph 19 should read “10,200,170 dollars”; the third blank should read “1,775,670 dollars”; and the fourth blank should read “390,830 dollars”.
24. Ms. Hazanovitz (Israel) said that, as every year, the Group of 77 and China had politicized the Committee's work on the draft resolution, and that the Committee had allowed the outrageous ritual to become an accepted practice. Her delegation deplored the unjustified bias on the basis of which Israel was singled out every year. Israel had a profound understanding of the need for peacekeeping; it had experienced the horrors of war at first hand, and terrorism and violence continued to plague its citizens. It maintained good relations with the peacekeeping forces in the region, including the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL), and continuously demonstrated its support for United Nations peacekeeping operations. Her delegation expressed its gratitude to the men and women who assumed such difficult but crucial responsibilities, to the troop - and police-contributing countries, and to the Secretariat.
25. The fourth preambular paragraph and paragraphs 4, 5 and 13 were an attempt at inserting a political agenda in a budget discussion. Her delegation requested a recorded vote on those paragraphs, and would vote against them.
4/11
17-10925
A/C.5/71/SR.39
26. Ms. Norman Chalet (United States of America), speaking in explanation of vote before the voting, said that while the United States of America strongly supported UNIFIL and its important mandate, the use of funding resolutions to pursue claims against a Member State was not procedurally correct, hence her delegation's opposition to previous General Assembly resolutions requiring Israel to pay for costs stemming from the Qana incident of 1996. Those resolutions were not consensus resolutions.
27. The procedure followed since shortly after the founding of the United Nations had been for the Secretary-General to pursue settlement of the Organization's claims against States. Using a funding resolution to legislate a settlement was inappropriate, politicized the work of the Committee, and should be avoided.
28. At the request of the representative of Israel, a recorded vote was taken on the fourth preambular paragraph and paragraphs 4, 5 and 13 of draft resolution A/C.5/71/L.31.
In favour:
Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gabon, Ghana, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Russian Federation, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, Singapore, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, Uruguay, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Zambia, Zimbabwe.
Against:
Canada, Israel, United States of America.
Abstaining:
Albania, Andorra, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia,
Cyprus, Czechia, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Mexico, Monaco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Sudan, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania.
29. The fourth preambular paragraph and
paragraphs 4, 5 and 13 of draft resolution
A/C.5/71/L.31 were adopted by 87 votes to 3, with 53 abstentions.
30. The Chair said that a recorded vote had been requested on draft resolution A/C.5/71/L.31, as orally amended, as a whole.
31. At the request of the representative of Israel, a recorded vote was taken on draft resolution A/C.5/71/L.31, as orally amended, as a whole.
In favour:
Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechia, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Gabon, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, San Marino, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Serbia, Sierra
17-10925
5/11
A/C.5/71/SR.39
Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Uruguay, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Zambia, Zimbabwe.
Against:
Canada, Israel, United States of America.
Abstaining:
Central African Republic, United Republic of Tanzania.
32. Draft resolution A/C.5/71/L.31, as orally amended, was adopted by 138 votes to 3, with 2 abstentions.
33. Ms. Borg (Malta), speaking on behalf of the European Union, said that it was a matter of concern that no consensus had been reached on the draft resolution, and that political elements had been introduced in the work of the Committee.
34. The States members of the European Union had abstained in the vote on the fourth preambular paragraph and paragraphs 4, 5 and 13 as they considered the text inappropriate in the context of the financing of UNIFIL. The broader political aspects of the events referred to, including the incident at Qana, had been debated extensively in the plenary Assembly in April 1996, and reflected in resolution 50/22 C, at which time the member States had made clear their position.
35. The member States would have preferred the Committee's consultations on the matter to have been confined to the budgetary aspects of the financing of UNIFIL. Nevertheless, they had voted in favour of the draft resolution as a whole, as it provided the Force with the resources needed to discharge its important mandate.
36. Mr. Abbas (Lebanon) paid tribute to the sacrifices of United Nations peacekeepers in the service of peace and stability around the world, in particular in the Middle East, and expressed gratitude to the countries contributing troops to UNIFIL.
37. He thanked the delegations that had voted in favour of the draft resolution. His delegation's vote in favour reflected its unwavering support for the contribution of UNIFIL to peace and stability in the region since its establishment in 1978 and the
fulfilment of its mandate to fully implement Security Council resolution 1701 (2006).
38. His delegation had also voted in favour of the fourth preambular paragraph and paragraphs 4, 5 and 13, made necessary by the persistent non-compliance of Israel with previous resolutions. He supported the Secretary-General's efforts to secure the payment to UNIFIL of the amount of $1,117,005 as compensation for the shelling and destruction of the Force's headquarters at Qana in April 1996.
39. The Force remained invaluable; in a region where conflict was widespread, it provided stability and security in its area of operations. His delegation was concerned about the reduction in funding for UNIFIL operations. Further reductions would imperil the Force's activities and prevent it from fulfilling its mandate in accordance with Security Council resolutions.
Agenda item 161: Financing of the United Nations Mission in South Sudan (continued) (A/C.5/71/L.35)
Draft resolution A/C.5/71/L.35: Financing of the United Nations Mission in South Sudan
40. Draft resolution A/C.5/71/L.35 was adopted.
Agenda item 162: Financing of the United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara
(continued) (A/C.5/71/L.45)
Draft resolution A/C.5/71/L.45: Financing of the United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara
41. Draft resolution A/C.5/71/L.45 was adopted.
Agenda item 163: Financing of the African UnionUnited Nations Hybrid Operation in Darfur
(continued) (A/C.5/71/L.36)
Draft resolution A/C.5/71/L.36: Financing of the African Union-UnitedNations Hybrid Operation in Darfur
42. Draft resolution A/C.5/71/L.36 was adopted.
Agenda item 164: Financing of activities arising from Security Council resolution 1863 (2009)
(continued) (A/C.5/71/L.37)
Draft resolution A/C.5/71/L.37: Financing of the activities arising from Security Council resolution 1863 (2009)
43. Draft resolution A/C.5/71/L.37 was adopted.
6/11
17-10925
A/C.5/71/SR.39
Agenda item 133: Review of the efficiency and the administrative and financial functioning of the United Nations (continued) (A/C.5/71/L.52)
Questions deferred for future consideration
Draft resolution A/C.5/71/L.52: Questions deferred for future consideration
44. Draft resolution A/C.5/71/L.52 was adopted.
Other matters
45. The Chair invited the Committee to take note of the information in the Secretary-General's note on the financing of the support account for peacekeeping operations, the United Nations Logistics Base at Brindisi, Italy, and the Regional Service Centre in Entebbe, Uganda (A/C.5/71/23), which, in accordance with the prorating procedures established in General Assembly resolution 50/221 B, indicated the amounts to be apportioned in respect of each peacekeeping mission, including the prorated share of the support account, the United Nations Logistics Base and the Regional Service Centre. She also invited the Committee to take note of the Secretary-General's note on approved resources for peacekeeping operations for the period from 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2018 (A/C.5/71/24).
Completion of the work of the Fifth Committee at the second part of the resumed seventy-first session of the General Assembly
46. Ms. Pereira Sotomayor (Ecuador), speaking on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, noted with satisfaction that the Committee had completed its work at the second part of the seventy-first session through constructive and flexible engagement, following a difficult negotiation process. The preparation and approval of budgets for peacekeeping operations must ensure that missions had the necessary resources to fulfil their mandates, taking into account the situation on the ground, and should not be approached as an arbitrary, across-the-board cost-cutting exercise. She hoped that the conclusions reached by the Committee would enable the Secretariat to carry out its work effectively and efficiently.
47. While progress had been made in addressing sexual exploitation and abuse, the Organization must continue to harmonize its approach in that regard, with particular emphasis on the needs of victims, and must apply a zero-tolerance policy to uniformed personnel and civilians alike, including all non-United Nations forces operating under a Security Council mandate.
48. In view of the critical role of troop- and policecontributing countries in maintaining international peace and security, close consultation between those countries and the Secretary-General on matters related to peacekeeping operations was essential. The Secretariat must also continue its efforts to make peacekeeping more field-focused and effective, including by ensuring that the Regional Service Centre in Entebbe was fully utilized in order to maximize efficiency gains and benefits. It was regrettable that no agreement had been reached on the issue of closed peacekeeping missions, and she trusted that at the second part of the resumed seventy-second session there would be new options for devising sustainable solutions to address claims payable to Member States, particularly troop-contributing countries, from closed peacekeeping operation budgets.
49. Mr. Abdallah (Chad), speaking on behalf of the Group of African States, said that the agreement on the peacekeeping budget had been reached through painful compromises. The Group was concerned at the tendency to reduce the resources allocated for peacekeeping operations, whose primary purpose was to support Member States' efforts to achieve peace and stability and protect civilians, in particular women and children. If efforts to do more with less continued, peacekeeping operations would be left with few resources - including human resources - with which to implement their mandates. A different approach should be taken to consideration of the budget for the support account in particular.
50. While the approved overall peacekeeping budget for the 2017/18 period was adequate to cover the fundamental activities of peacekeeping operations, attempts to impose substantial, across-the-board budget cuts would undermine the credibility of the United Nations and increase the risk of a non-consensual outcome on future peacekeeping budgets. Committee members must work constructively at the expert level to avoid such an outcome.
51. The approved budget for 2017/18 amounted to $6.8 billion, reflecting a reduction from 2016/17 related to the expected closure of the United Nations Mission in Liberia (UNMIL), the United Nations Operation in Cote d'Ivoire (UNOCI) and the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti (MINUSTAH), and the decision to finance the African Union-United Nations Hybrid Operation in Darfur (UNAMID) under a commitment authority for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2017. The decision to allocate a sixmonth commitment authority for UNAMID, which predated the outcome of the Security Council's deliberations on the future mandate of the mission,
17-10925
7/11
A/C.5/71/SR.39
must be treated as an exception without setting a precedent. The budgets allocated to the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUSCO), the United Nations Mission in South Sudan (UNMISS) and the United Nations Support Office in Somalia (UNSOS), which had been significantly reduced from 2016/17, might need to be revised upward to reflect additional requirements for the deployment of troops. In addition, any liabilities that arose after the closure of the United Nations Operation in Cote d'Ivoire (UNOCI) would be covered by the Secretariat through existing mechanisms with the concurrence of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions.
52. The Advisory Committee's recommendations at the current part of the seventy -first session were more extensive than usual, in particular with regard to the reassignment and redeployment of posts, which made their implementation challenging. The need for equitable geographical representation in the membership of the Advisory Committee should be addressed at the seventy-second session of the General Assembly. In addition, the Security Council should take into account the challenges that arose when the submission of budget proposals for missions predated the outcome of deliberations on their future mandates and when inadequate time was allotted for mission exit periods. While the overall 2017/18 peacekeeping budget approved by the Committee would impose constraints on the implementation of certain activities, a number of options could be exercised, in line with the applicable rules and regulations, in order to mitigate those constraints.
53. The Group expected that the Secretariat would implement the recommendations of the Board of Auditors in a timely manner, underscoring in that regard that the main purpose of civilian staffing reviews was not to achieve savings but to ensure effective mandate implementation. He also hoped that the Secretariat would give due attention to issues that had not been fully addressed at the current session, including the policy on vehicle holdings by peacekeeping missions; challenges related to the availability of medical support and the safety and security of missions; mine-action activities; accommodation standards for peacekeeping personnel; the environmental footprint of peacekeeping missions; procurement from local and regional markets, and timely reimbursement to troop-contributing countries.
54. The Group expected that the partnership between the African Union and the United Nations, in particular between the Peace and Security Council of the African
Union and the United Nations Security Council, would lead to better cooperation and engagement in implementing the peacekeeping reform initiatives of the Secretary-General. Drawing on the best practices of that partnership in the context of, inter alia, UNSOS and UNAMID, the Organization should continue to support the conflict prevention and resolution efforts and peacebuilding initiatives of the African Union and its subregional institutions, in particular the activities of the Group of Five for the Sahel joint counterterrorism force; the Multinational Joint Task Force to combat Boko Haram; the regional brigades of the African Standby Force established by the African Union; African rapid intervention forces; and bilateral border control mechanisms.
55. The investment of the international community in peacekeeping operations must reflect a balance between the imperatives of achieving long-term results and allocating resources for peacekeeping operations on a short-term basis, in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the Organization in the light of increasing challenges, limited mandates and the scarcity of available resources. The absence of such a balance would undermine the credibility of the United Nations and impose a significant financial burden on Member States as a consequence of the potential failure of missions to ensure the stability and protection of civilians in host countries. He concluded by calling on all Member States to pay their assessed contributions in full and on time in order to avoid the accumulation of arrears and cash shortfalls, which threatened mandate fulfilment.
56. Mr. Funes Henri'quez (El Salvador), speaking on behalf of the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States (CELAC), said that delegations had worked together in a spirit of flexibility to achieve a hard-won consensus. He hoped that the decisions taken by the Committee at the current part of the seventy first session would not adversely affect the Secretariat's ability to fulfil its critical mandates on the ground. CELAC would work constructively to ensure that the Organization had the resources necessary to implement its mandates and continue to support the development of all Member States.
57. Ms. Adamson (Observer for the European Union) commended the hard work of all United Nations personnel involved in the difficult task of peacekeeping and paid tribute to those who had lost their lives while serving in a United Nations peacekeeping mission. The European Union attached great importance to peacekeeping operations as a core task of the Organization and valued the partnership among the Secretariat, troop-contributing countries,
8/11
17-10925
A/C.5/71/SR.39
host countries and financial contributors that made United Nations peacekeeping unique. The Committee's consensus -based working methods ensured the continued engagement of all stakeholders in that partnership, and its political will to find negotiated solutions demonstrated its ability to act together in the interest of peacekeeping. While the Committee played an important role in ensuring the effective and efficient implementation of peacekeeping mandates, particularly in the areas of human rights, gender equality and civilian protection, and in the overall peacekeeping architecture of the Organization, its role did not extend to mandate-setting and it should respect that boundary.
58. The decisions taken by the Committee should promote the effectiveness and efficiency of individual missions and peacekeeping as a whole by ensuring missions' flexibility, adherence to the highest environmental standards and utilization of modern technologies and innovations. In that regard, the European Union looked forward to further discussions on the peace and security reform and management reform initiatives of the Secretary-General. While she regretted that the Committee had been unable to reach an agreement on a draft resolution on cross-cutting issues relating to peacekeeping, she acknowledged the importance of the Committee's adoption of a draft resolution on special measures for protection from sexual exploitation and sexual abuse, underscoring that the image of the Organization must not be tarnished by any form of misconduct. In that regard, she looked forward to the implementation of the ambitious follow up initiatives undertaken by the Secretary-General and to the high-level meeting on combating sexual exploitation and abuse planned for September 2017.
59. The Committee had, once again, failed to complete its work within the prescribed time frame, which illustrated the inadequacy of the four weeks allotted at the second part of the resumed session for the Committee to consider the complex issues before it and approve individual peacekeeping budgets. The European Union therefore proposed the establishment of a period starting in early May and finishing by a firm deadline of mid-June for the Committee's negotiations at the second part of future resumed sessions of the General Assembly.
60. Mr. Imada (Japan) said that Committee members had engaged in deliberations in a spirit of mutual respect and flexibility to arrive at a solution on which all Member States could agree. The Committee had adopted draft resolutions on special measures for protection from sexual exploitation and sexual abuse and on the triennial review of the rates and standards for reimbursement to Member States for contingent-
owned equipment, but had not adopted a comprehensive resolution on cross -cutting issues. He trusted that the Secretary-General would exercise budgetary discipline and ensure that assessed contributions for the peacekeeping and regular budgets were used for appropriate purposes and in strict accordance with the intentions of intergovernmental bodies. Such budgetary discipline was critical to the efficient, effective and accountable management of peacekeeping operations. His delegation would closely examine the resource requirements proposed by the Secretariat at the main part of the seventy-second session of the General Assembly in the light of those principles, recalling that assessed contributions were funded by the taxpayers of Member States.
61. Mr. Sandoval Mendiolea (Mexico) said that he trusted that the budgets approved by the Committee would enable peacekeeping operations to fulfil their mandates in situations of increasing complexity and security risks. While he welcomed the emphasis placed by the Committee on the effective and efficient use of the resources contributed by Member States, the imposition of arbitrary, across-the-board budget cuts was counterproductive and undermined mandate fulfilment. He hoped that the Organization's commitment to prudent savings would also extend to the financing of special political missions, which distorted the regular budget, with a view to liberating resources to support the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals.
62. He noted with satisfaction that the level of resources allocated to MINUSTAH was adequate to ensure a responsible and gradual transition to the follow-on mission, the United Nations Mission for Justice Support in Haiti (MINUJUSTH). Urgent efforts must nevertheless be made to address the cholera epidemic in Haiti, in which the Organization was implicated, and to compensate those affected and the families of victims. The Organization had a key role to play in providing ongoing support to the Haitian people, in particular through the United Nations country team, and his delegation expected exemplary coordination, coherence, efficiency and transparency in that regard. The Organization had a critical opportunity to guide Haiti through a smooth transition from humanitarian assistance to full sustainable development and support the Haitian authorities in achieving long-awaited sustainable peace.
63. Mexico welcomed the adoption of the draft resolution on special measures for protection from sexual exploitation and abuse, which reflected a common commitment to fully implementing the Organization's zero-tolerance policy, promoting a
17-10925
9/11
A/C.5/71/SR.39
system-wide approach to addressing such acts, and assisting victims through cooperation between the Secretariat and Member States, in particular troop contributing countries. All Member States must respond effectively to cases of sexual exploitation and abuse, which caused irreparable harm and must never recur.
64. His delegation attached great importance to the Secretary-General's intention to strengthen the management of the United Nations system and reform the peace and security pillar. He would be interested to know more about the Secretary-General's efforts to identify the problems to be addressed and establish strategic objectives for reform, general lines of action, expected results and mechanisms for implementation. That process should be undertaken in consultation with Member States. In that regard, his delegation would welcome further details with respect to the estimated timetable for the planning and implementation of the Secretary-General's reform agenda. Efforts must also be made to change the public perception that the United Nations was wasteful, inefficient, and ineffective and incurred high expenditures for personnel, planning, processes and services contracted at headquarters duty stations. Those shortcomings were compounded by the existence of duplicate functions and obsolete mandates, which were not subject to rigorous evaluation with a view to ensuring their elimination, a problem that was both masked and aggravated by bureaucratic inertia.
65. Mexico stood ready to support the bold and transformative initiatives required to create a more effective, efficient, flexible, results-focused and fieldoriented United Nations. On the basis of the agreements reached by the General Assembly and the Security Council in 2016 and the vision of the Secretary-General, the Organization had an opportunity to advance the paradigm shift towards sustaining peace, which would require addressing the root causes of conflicts and building a security system based on international cooperation, international law, development and peace.
66. Mr. Fu Daopeng (China) said that Member States had bolstered the effectiveness of the Committee's work by participating in its negotiations actively and in a spirit of transparency. Peacekeeping budgets should be formulated with a view to ensuring the full implementation of mandates and the efficient use of resources. In that regard, he called on all Member States to pay their assessed contributions in full and on time in order to ensure effective mandate implementation.
67. He noted with satisfaction that the main concerns of all Member States, in particular African countries, had been duly taken into account throughout the Committee's deliberations at the current session. Respect for the sovereignty, views and needs of the countries concerned must be reflected in the formulation of mandates and budgets. He concluded by paying tribute to all United Nations peacekeeping personnel.
68. Ms. Norman Chalet (United States of America) said that United Nations peacekeeping was critical for maintaining international peace and security. She expressed gratitude to all peacekeeping personnel in the field and at Headquarters, and paid tribute to those who had lost their lives in the cause of peace.
69. The approved peacekeeping budget would allow missions to implement their mandates effectively with adequate backstopping support, while also enabling the realization of efficiencies. The Committee was responsible for ensuring that peacekeeping budgets represented actual requirements, were based on realistic planning assumptions and reflected efficiencies gained through ongoing management initiatives. The reduction of approximately 7.5 per cent in the overall budget for 2017/18 compared with 2016/17 responsibly reflected the decreasing deployment of personnel and the closure and downsizing of several long-standing missions.
70. She welcomed the adoption by consensus of the draft resolution on special measures for protection from sexual exploitation and sexual abuse, in which Member States recognized the need to broaden the scope of discussions on that issue beyond peacekeeping and ensure that all United Nations agencies, funds and programmes contributed to enforcing the zero-tolerance policy and supporting victims. She also noted the emphasis that the Committee placed on thorough, rigorous analysis of how the zero-tolerance policy was being implemented on the ground by requesting detailed assessments of victim assistance efforts in the field; cooperation between the Secretariat and funds and programmes in key areas such as screening and investigations; and efforts by individual missions to uphold the policy. The Secretary-General should provide the Committee with detailed evaluations in future reports that would help Member States to identify gaps in the Organization's approach to combating sexual exploitation and abuse and determine how best to address them.
71. The outcomes of the triennial review of the rates and standards for reimbursement to Member States for contingent-owned equipment included agreements on providing incentives for rapid deployment and
10/11
17-10925
A/C.5/71/SR.39
performance; mainstreaming technology; and improving medical support. More could nevertheless be done to improve the performance and financing frameworks for contingent-owned equipment through constructive collaboration between Member States and the Secretariat, which was essential to realizing the full potential of the peacekeeping partnership.
72. While her delegation was disappointed that the Committee had been unable to reach consensus on a draft resolution on cross-cutting issues, it would continue to support the Secretary-General's efforts to ensure that peacekeeping operations were fit for purpose. It attached particular importance to initiatives to improve performance in the field, including by developing capabilities and strengthening accountability for poor performance and misconduct. Her delegation would also continue to support efforts to strengthen leadership, improve planning and analysis, and integrate modern technology in peacekeeping missions, and looked forward to the Secretary-General's proposals on how to improve planning, management and support of field operations and facilitate transitions.
73. Ms. Maciel Gonzalez (Paraguay) said that, as a troop-contributing country, Paraguay had consistently promoted the effective implementation of peacekeeping mandates. It was essential to ensure that peacekeeping missions were provided with adequate resources and that the formulation, presentation and approval of peacekeeping budgets were based on mission mandates and the real situation on the ground.
74. She thanked Member States for working in a spirit of flexibility and good will to reach consensus on the peacekeeping budget in order to ensure that peacekeeping operations had the necessary resources to implement their mandates.
75. Mr. Sanchez Azcuy (Cuba) said that ensuring adequate financing of peacekeeping operations on the basis of the scale of assessments adopted by the General Assembly was the best way to translate the political commitments of Member States into concrete action and demonstrated their dedication to ensuring the smooth functioning, health, credibility and future of the Organization.
76. He expressed concern at the attempts that had been made at the current part of the seventy-first session to impose unjustified budget cuts that threatened the functioning of peacekeeping missions. He was also concerned that such practices as approving peacekeeping budgets for periods of six months and taking budgetary decisions that prejudged future peacekeeping mandates would continue in the future.
As proposals to reduce the overall United Nations budget were becoming a general trend, his delegation was already envisaging the cuts that might be proposed at the seventy-second session of the General Assembly and considering potential solutions. While Cuba supported initiatives to do more with less, attempting to do something with nothing would weaken the credibility of the Organization.
77. After an exchange of courtesies, in which Mr. Burity (Angola), Mr. Abdallah (Chad), speaking on behalf of the Group of African States, and Ms. Pereira Sotomayor (Ecuador), took part, the Chair declared that the Fifth Committee had completed its work at the second part of the resumed seventy-first session of the General Assembly.
The meeting rose at 5.20 p.m.
17-10925
11/11