United Nations
A/C.5/70/SR.2
General Assembly
Seventieth session
Official Records
Distr.: General 23 October 2015
Original: English
Fifth Committee
Summary record of the 2nd meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Friday, 9 October 2015, at 10 a.m.
Chair: Mr. Bhattarai (Nepal)
Contents
Agenda item 138: Scale of assessments for the apportionment of the expenses of the United Nations (continued)
Agenda item 147: Scale of assessments for the apportionment of the expenses of United Nations peacekeeping operations (continued)
Agenda item 135: Programme planning
Agenda item 133: Programme budget for the biennium 2014 -2015
United Nations Office for Partnerships
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Control Unit (srcorrections@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
15-17463 (E)
in ii ii i ii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
A/C.5/70/SR.2
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 138: Scale of assessments for the apportionment of the expenses of the United Nations
(continued) (A/70/11 and A/70/69; A/C.5/70/L.2)
Agenda item 147: Scale of assessments for the apportionment of the expenses of United Nations peacekeeping operations (continued) (A/70/331)
Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.2: Scale of assessments for the apportionment of the expenses of the United Nations: requests under Article 19 of the Charter
1. Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.2 was adopted.
2. Mr. Salih (Iraq) said that the current method of preparing the scale of assessments reflected changes in the economic situation of Member States. Such fundamental elements as the base period, gross national income (GNI), conversion rates, low per capita income adjustment, gradient, floor, least developed countries ceiling and debt-burden adjustment were not open to negotiation. His delegation reaffirmed the importance of the principle of capacity to pay in the apportionment of United Nations expenses and rejected any changes intended to increase the contributions of developing nations. Economic conditions in Iraq had been exacerbated by the war on terror and its economic, social and humanitarian effects, which had resulted in heavy expenditure on aid and health care for displaced persons, in particular women, children and the elderly. His delegation therefore categorically rejected the 89.7 per cent increase in Iraqi contributions in the report of the Committee on Contributions (A/70/11). The information used to calculate the scale of assessments must be accurate and up to date for every country.
3. Mr. Ko Jae Sin (Republic of Korea) said that the methodology for calculating the scale of assessments had resulted in many changes in Member State contributions, reflecting the dynamic global economic landscape. Given that many States had strengthened their fiscal discipline, the United Nations must share the burden of its activities more fairly and sustainably. The current methodology could be improved in terms of equitability, sustainability, simplicity and the principle of capacity to pay. While the deviation between the scales and the GNI shares of Member States after the application of the debt burden adjustment, low per capita income adjustment and ceilings was intended to reflect States' economic
situations, it could, if it became excessive, result in scales that distorted their actual capacity to pay.
4. The Committee on Contributions pointed out in its report (A/70/11) that the use of actual data related to debt flow and public debt, rather than theoretical assumptions, could increase the accuracy of the debtburden adjustment. His delegation believed that such use would reflect capacity to pay more accurately and equitably.
5. The increase in the redistribution of points at the low per capita income adjustment stage and the revision of such adjustment using the world average per capita debt-adjusted GNI or an inflation-adjusted threshold should be given due attention in discussions.
6. His delegation endorsed the recommendation of the Committee on Contributions regarding exemptions from the application of Article 19 of the Charter of the United Nations and encouraged the Member States concerned to pay their assessed contributions.
7. Mr. Al-Musafiri (United Arab Emirates) said that the role of the United Nations in the peaceful settlement of conflicts was not limited to peacekeeping operations. It also included preparing the ground for dialogue among the parties to a conflict and establishing a political process to ensure peace and stability. The general principles underlying the financing of peacekeeping operations, approved by the General Assembly in resolution 55/235, should be the basis for any discussion of the scale of assessments. The permanent members of the Security Council should fulfil their responsibilities related to peacekeeping operations.
8. With regard to the discounts applied in the apportionment of the expenses of United Nations peacekeeping operations, as a result of which some countries had been categorized at peacekeeping level B, his delegation called for compliance with the ministerial declaration of the Group of 77 and China of 28 September 2012, which stated that no member State of the Group that was not a permanent member of the Security Council should be categorized above level C.
9. Mr. Greiver (Chairman of the Committee on Contributions) said that the comments of Fifth Committee members would be transmitted to the Committee on Contributions, whose report (A/70/11) contained answers to all the questions asked. More information had been available to the Committee on Contributions in 2015 than ever before, and the focus
2/5
15-17463
A/C.5/70/SR.2
of its work had been to analyse and summarize that information, taking into account the interests of all Member States, rather than to produce estimates as in previous years. The members of the Committee on Contributions would be available to discuss the next draft resolution on the scale of assessments at the informal consultations of the Fifth Committee.
Agenda item 135: Programme planning (A/68/74, A/68/74/Corr.1, A/70/16, A/70/72 and A/70/80)
10. The Chair, in the absence of the Chair of the Committee for Programme and Coordination (CPC), drew attention to the report of CPC (A/70/16), the report of the Office of Internal Oversight Services on strengthening the role of evaluation and the application of evaluation findings on programme design, delivery and policy directives(A/70/72), the Secretary-General's report on the consolidated changes to the biennial programme plan as reflected in the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2016-2017 and proposals to improve the implementation of resultsbased budgeting (A/70/80), and the SecretaryGeneral's report on proposed revisions to the Regulations and Rules Governing Programme Planning, the Programme Aspects of the Budget, Monitoring of Implementation and the Methods of Evaluation (A/68/74 and A/68/74/Corr.1).
11. Ms. Lingenfelder (South Africa), speaking on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, said that the Group attached great importance to the work of CPC as the main subsidiary organ of the General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council responsible for supporting the translation of intergovernmental mandates into workable programmes. CPC offered guidance to the Secretariat by interpreting legislative mandates and developed evaluation procedures to improve programme design and avoid duplication of effort. The Group fully endorsed the recommendations and conclusions contained in the report of CPC on its fifty-fifth session.
12. The changes approved by CPC to the Regulations and Rules Governing Programme Planning, the Programme Aspects of the Budget, Monitoring of Implementation and the Methods of Evaluation (A/70/16) originated from specific mandates and were directly linked to General Assembly resolutions. The Group welcomed the provision by the Secretariat, at the request of CPC members, of general overviews of all the changes, including historical information regarding
earlier revisions, explanations for the introduction of new concepts and other underlying justifications. It noted the CPC decision to postpone consideration of the proposed revisions to article VI of and the annex to the Regulations and Rules to its fifty-seventh session. Such revisions should take into account relevant resolutions of the General Assembly. The Group agreed that the Regulations and Rules should be periodically updated and reaffirmed the role of CPC in verifying that programmes of activities were implemented in line with the legislative mandates and that rules and regulations were applied.
13. With regard to the consolidated changes to the biennial programme plan as reflected in the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2016 -2017 (A/70/80), the Group supported the recommendations that the Secretary-General should improve the objectives of the Organization, the expected accomplishments of the Secretariat and the indicators of achievement to strengthen the evaluation of results. Staff should be trained to ensure their proficiency in the relevant concepts and techniques, including the formulation of such accomplishments and indicators.
14. In improving results-based budgeting (A/70/16), the Secretary-General should ensure that expected accomplishments, indicators of achievement and objectives were defined, bearing in mind the direct link between inputs and outputs. Inputs should be commensurate with the needs of programmes, taking into consideration the international character of the United Nations, its Charter and its legislative mandates, and the fact that results in complex and longstanding political activities were difficult to achieve within specific time frames. The objectives of the Organization might not be achieved in a single biennial cycle. The General Assembly had endorsed such principles in its resolution 55/231.
15. With regard to the CPC conclusions and recommendations on strengthening the role of evaluation and the application of evaluation findings to programme design, delivery and policy directives (A/70/72), a strong evaluation function was essential to assessing the Organization's performance, enhancing accountability and learning lessons, and allowed Member States to follow up on programme outcomes systematically. Given that major obstacles to the strengthening of evaluation remained, the Secretariat must allocate appropriate resources to it and develop a more robust culture of evaluation by strengthening
15-17463
3/5
A/C.5/70/SR.2
senior management support and staff buy -in. Senior managers' compacts should contain enough programme objectives and performance measures to fulfil given mandates in accordance with relevant rules and regulations, and the evaluation function should be duly considered in such managers' performance appraisals.
16. The Group noted the evaluations to be conducted by CPC at its fifty-seventh session and regretted that no agreement had been reached on the presentation to the Fifth Committee of the peacekeeping evaluations planned by the Office of Internal Oversight Services between 1 July 2015 and 30 June 2016, to include force generation, robust peacekeeping and rehatting in peacekeeping missions.
17. With regard to the annual overview report of the United Nations System Chief Executives Board for Coordination (A/70/16), the Group welcomed the Board's efforts to promote policy coordination and coherence in economic and social development, South South and triangular cooperation, and climate change; increase the impact of the operational activities of the United Nations system; and support United Nations country teams. It encouraged the Board to enhance collaboration in procurement, including by improving opportunities for developing country vendors, and to promote the strategic use of long-term agreements.
18. The Group welcomed the recognition by CPC of the intrinsic link between poverty eradication and sustainable development, and the importance of mobilizing resources to support the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The Board would play a key role in ensuring coordinated system-wide support of the Agenda, and its report to the fifty-sixth session of CPC should contain information on ways of strengthening that role to ensure coordinated United Nations action on the wide range of programmatic, management and operational issues linked to the global development agenda.
19. With regard to the United Nations system support for the New Partnership for Africa's Development, the Group joined CPC in commending the Office of the Special Adviser on Africa. It agreed with the recommendation that the General Assembly should request United Nations system organizations to coordinate with the Planning and Coordinating Agency of the Partnership, as the technical body of the African Union, and other structures of the African Union Commission and the Partnership, to support the
African Union Commission Strategic Plan 2014 -2017 and the 10-year implementation plan for the African Union Agenda 2063.
20. Ms. Norman Chalet (United States of America) said that as the only United Nations intergovernmental body with a mandate to examine the whole of the Secretary-General's work programme, CPC was uniquely placed to hold the Secretariat accountable, determine which programmes were obsolete or ineffective, and recommend their curtailment or termination. According to the Board of Auditors' report for the biennium ended 31 December 2011 (A/67/5 (Vol. I)), however, CPC gave limited consideration to outcome-level performance information that could contribute to results-based budgeting. Often, CPC recommendations lacked critical programme analysis, its deliberations duplicated discussions in other forums and its decisions did not improve the strategic framework of the Organization, with the result that the United Nations was unable to robustly assess whether it was using its resources cost-effectively.
21. The report of CPC on its fifty-fifth session (A/70/16), however, reflected a renewed commitment to accountability and the efficient use of resources. Her delegation commended CPC on updating the Regulations and Rules Governing Programme Planning, the Programme Aspects of the Budget, the Monitoring of Implementation and the Methods of Evaluation for the first time since 2001, and welcomed the recommendation on results-based budgeting, which had emphasized the need for stronger logical frameworks that clearly indicated the impact of programmes. Progress, however, would require sustained implementation of such recommendations.
22. Mr. Onuma (Japan) said that his country recognized the significant role played by CPC in the review of the proposed regular budget, and believed that strengthening its role and functions would make the budget process more cost-effective. In particular, CPC could identify areas of overlap and duplication throughout the system.
23. As in previous years, the overlap in the sessions of CPC and the second part of the resumed session of the Fifth Committee had resulted in difficulties for both Member States and the Secretariat, which should make further efforts to avoid, or at the very least minimize, any potential overlap in future.
4/5
15-17463
A/C.5/70/SR.2
Agenda item 133: Programme budget for the biennium 2014-2015
United Nations Office for Partnerships (A/70/202)
24. Ms. de la Roche (Officer-in-Charge, United Nations Office for Partnerships), introducing the report of the Secretary-General on the United Nations Office for Partnerships (A/70/202), said that the Office oversaw the United Nations Fund for International Partnerships (UNFIP), the United Nations Democracy Fund and the Partnership Advisory and Outreach Service.
25. UNFIP served as the interface between the United Nations Foundation and the United Nations system. Under the Revised and Restated Relationship Agreement between the United Nations and the United Nations Foundation, signed in October 2014, the partnership had been renewed for 10 years. The two bodies had undertaken to consult closely and coordinate their activities, and the Joint Coordinating Committee had been established to enhance communication.
26. At the end of 2014, the cumulative allocations provided by the Foundation through UNFIP to projects implemented by the United Nations system had reached $1.36 billion, of which $450 million had come from core Turner funds and $910 million had been generated as co-financing from other partners. The Foundation had supported global health initiatives, in particular polio, measles, rubella and malaria campaigns; women's and girls' empowerment, in particular reproductive rights and economic empowerment; and sustainable energy and climate change initiatives. A total of 563 projects had been implemented by 43 United Nations entities in 124 countries.
27. The United Nations Democracy Fund had begun funding its eighth round of projects in 2014. A total of 49 projects had been funded at a cost of just under $10 million. The vast majority of the funds had gone to local civil society organizations in countries in both the transition and consolidation phases of democratization. The Fund had launched its ninth round of projects in November 2014 and had received 2,331 applications by the deadline of 31 December 2014. By that date, the Fund had supported almost 600 projects in over 120 countries since its inception.
The meeting rose at 10.50 a.m.
15-17463
5/5