United Nations
A/C.5/68/SR.45
General Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
Official Records
Distr.: General 14 August 2014
Original: English
Fifth Committee
Summary record of the 45th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Wednesday, 18 June 2014, at 5.20 p.m.
Chair: Mr. Taalas (Finland)
Contents
Agenda item 5: Election of the officers of the Main Committees
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Control Unit (srcorrections@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-55804 (E)
llllllllllllllllllll
Please recycle
A/C.5/68/SR.45
The meeting was called to order at 5.20 p.m.
Agenda item 5: Election of the officers of the Main Committees
1. The Chair said that, in accordance with rule 99 (a) of the rules of procedure, the meeting had been convened for the purpose of electing the Chair and other members of the Bureau for the sixty-ninth session of the General Assembly.
2. The nomination of Mr. Ruzicka (Slovakia) for the office of Chair had been endorsed by the Group of Eastern European States. In the absence of further nominations, and in accordance with rule 103 of the rules of procedure, he would take it that the Committee wished to elect Mr. Ruzicka (Slovakia) Chair.
3. Mr. Ruzicka (Slovakia) was elected Chair by acclamation.
4. Mr. Ruzicka (Slovakia) said that the work of the Committee required full cooperation and trust among all players. He vowed to maximize communication so as to ensure the efficiency and openness of deliberations and enable the Committee to reach compromise and find innovative approaches to address the challenges it faced.
5. The Chair said that the nominations of Ms. Coto-Ramirez (Costa Rica), Ms. Mukashyaka (Rwanda) and Ms. Rambukwella (Sri Lanka) for the three offices of Vice-Chair had been endorsed by the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States, the Group of African States and the Group of Asia-Pacific States, respectively, and that the nomination of Mr. Dettling (Switzerland) for the office of Rapporteur had been endorsed by the Group of Western European and Other States.
6. Ms. Coto-Ramirez (Costa Rica), Ms. Mukashyaka (Rwanda) and Ms. Rambukwella (Sri Lanka) were elected Vice-Chairs, and Mr. Dettling (Switzerland) was elected Rapporteur, by acclamation.
The meeting rose at 5.30p.m.
2/2
14-55804