United Nations
A/C.5/69/SR.25
General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
Official Records
Distr.: General 16 January 2015
Original: English
Fifth Committee
Summary record of the 25th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Wednesday, 18 December 2014, at 3 p.m.
Chair: Mr. Ruzicka (Slovakia)
later: Ms. Mukashyaka (Vice-Chair) (Rwanda)
Chair of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions: Mr. Ruiz Massieu
Contents
Agenda item 132: Programme budget for the biennium 2014-2015 (continued)
Revised estimates relating to the programme budget for the biennium 20142015 for the Office of the Special Envoy on Ebola and the United Nations Mission for Ebola Emergency Response
Programme budget implications of draft resolution A/69/L.43 on organization of the United Nations summit for the adoption of the post-2015 development agenda and draft decision A/69/L.44 on dates for the meetings of the process of intergovernmental negotiations on the post-2015 development agenda
Contingency fund: consolidated statement of programme budget implications and revised estimates
Agenda item 166: Financing of the African Union-United Nations Hybrid Operation in Darfur
Organization of work
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Control Unit (srcorrections@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
14-67523 (E)
111 1 HI III IN llllllll
Please recycle
A/C.5/69/SR.25
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.
1. The Chair informed the Committee that, on an exceptional basis, the Secretary-General's statement on the programme budget implications of draft resolution A/69/L.43 on organization of the United Nations summit for the adoption of the post-2015 development agenda and draft decision A/69/L.44 on dates for the meetings of the process of intergovernmental negotiations on the post-2015 development agenda (A/C.5/69/15) and the reports of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions on the revised estimates relating to the programme budget for the biennium 2014-2015 for the Office of the Special Envoy on Ebola and the United Nations Mission for Ebola Emergency Response (UNMEER) (A/69/660) and the revised budget for the African Union-United Nations Hybrid Operation in Darfur (UNAMID) for the period from 1 July 2014 to 30 June 2015 (A/69/671) would be considered on the basis of the English versions; the documents would be issued in all official languages as soon as possible. The arrangement would in no way set a precedent and the Assembly's resolutions on multilingualism should continue to be fully respected.
Agenda item 132: Programme budget for the biennium 2014-2015 (continued)
Revised estimates relating to the programme budget for the biennium 2014-2015 for the Office of the Special Envoy on Ebola and the United Nations Mission for Ebola Emergency Response (A/69/590, A/69/590/Corr.1 and A/69/660)
2. Ms. Malcorra (Chef de Cabinet), introducing the report of the Secretary-General on the revised estimates for the biennium 2014-2015 for the Office of the Special Envoy on Ebola and UNMEER (A/69/590 and A/69/590/Corr.1), said that the Ebola outbreak in West Africa had tested the global community's response capacity. Unlike in other emergencies, the United Nations was called upon to provide a response not in the aftermath of a disaster but during an ongoing and escalating crisis unfolding across national boundaries. That represented an unprecedented challenge that required a unique strategy and a unified United Nations system response. It was particularly urgent to support the work of the World Health Organization (WHO), as the sheer magnitude of the
operational requirements and field deployment needs had far surpassed the capabilities of an organization geared towards providing advice and technical support. In response, pursuant to General Assembly resolution 69/1, the Secretary-General had established UNMEER, the first-ever United Nations mission for a public health emergency.
3. The United Nations response was framed by existing national and international plans, with a focus on supporting the Governments of the affected countries. The Special Envoy would provide leadership, coordination and guidance to achieve those objectives, including through consultation with Member States and other stakeholders participating in or contributing to the international response efforts. UNMEER had built a regional operational platform to ensure the rapid delivery of international assistance. Implementation of the strategic response framework was carried out by United Nations agencies, funds and programmes and other implementing partners. In that way, the United Nations system response was being optimized to better meet the unique challenge it faced.
4. The overarching objective was to halt the spread of the Ebola virus. The Mission's mandate was linked to the successful implementation of the international response to the virus and its impact. UNMEER would cease to operate once the Ebola outbreak within the affected countries was contained and once the Governments of those countries were able to transition into a normal transmission prevention and response approach. The strategy in place had galvanized support to affected communities and UNMEER was working with the Governments of Guinea, Liberia, Sierra Leone and Mali and with agencies, funds, programmes and implementing partners to support the key components of national strategies to end the Ebola outbreak. In a relatively short period, significant progress had been made in slowing the spread of the disease as communities became empowered and engaged. Nonetheless, the challenge was great and much more work remained to be done before the crisis could be brought under control.
5. To respond to the challenges of the Ebola crisis in three countries, the structure of UNMEER was closely aligned with four critical lines of action: case finding, which included contact tracing and laboratory surveillance; case management; community engagement and social mobilization; and safe and dignified burials. Similar structures also addressed
2/11
14-67523
A/C.5/69/SR.25
those functions at the national level, taking into account the need for tailored responses to address the specific operational context in each affected State.
6. The resource requirements for the period from 19 September 2014 to 31 December 2015 amounted to $189.6 million and would provide for 376 positions in the Office of the Special Envoy and UNMEER; 20 positions in 2014 and 9 positions in 2015 at Headquarters to provide backstopping in the areas of legal support, medical services, finance and budget, procurement and security coordination; and operational costs to support the Mission. Owing to the nature of the Ebola crisis, including the ongoing evolution of the disease profile and transmission trends, UNMEER had to adjust its operational footprint rapidly to respond to changing conditions and needs. A unified organizational approach gave the Mission the necessary flexibility to adjust its field presence and operational models to best address requirements on the ground.
7. Only a few months after its initial deployment, UNMEER had achieved considerable progress. The Mission was directly supporting and coordinating the work of the United Nations system on the Ebola response. It was increasing its support to operations at the district level as the virus became less pronounced in certain urban centres, such as Monrovia, and became more geographically dispersed. Surveillance and monitoring capacities, as well as rapid response mechanisms, were being built up in order to provide surge support in response to flare-ups of the virus, as was currently occurring in Sierra Leone. While there had been some improvement in Guinea, additional efforts were currently targeting the Guinea Forest Region, where there had been an increase in transmission.
8. Lessons learned were being translated into early action in opening a small UNMEER office in Mali at the Government's request in order to help stop an outbreak in Bamako before it escalated into a crisis. At present, there were no further reported cases in Mali and no more contacts in quarantine. In one month, if that situation continued, Mali would be declared free of Ebola and the UNMEER office would close. The improvements seen were a testament to the fact that the four-pronged strategy of isolation, treatment, safe burials and social mobilization was working when fully implemented. More people had access to treatment, more contacts were being traced, burials were
becoming safer and communities were mobilizing to protect themselves.
9. The Secretary-General had travelled to West Africa to engage with Heads of State and Government, Member State implementing partners, and regional and non-governmental organizations, and to galvanize the United Nations system response and advocate for combating the scourge of Ebola. The current efforts must be redoubled in order to bring the crisis to a definitive end. The world had seen how just one case could trigger an epidemic. The overall number of cases was high and there was much more work to be done, including more robust contact tracing and ensuring greater preparedness at the district level. The international community had provided tremendous support to assist the affected countries and ensure the start-up of UNMEER.
10. Mr. Ruiz Massieu (Chair of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions), introducing the related report of the Advisory Committee (A/69/660), said that the Advisory Committee appreciated the dedication and commitment of the United Nations system personnel engaged in the effort to combat the spread of Ebola virus disease. It also welcomed the progress made at the planning conference in Accra to reach agreement among United Nations system entities on an operational framework for activities to support national Ebola responses.
11. With regard to the budget submission, the Advisory Committee was of the view that the Secretary-General's report (A/69/590) lacked clarity and detail. There was insufficient information to allow the General Assembly to make an informed decision regarding the proposed organizational structure, staffing and resource requirements of the Mission. The Advisory Committee therefore recommended that the Assembly should extend and supplement the commitment authority granted to the Secretary-General in its resolution 69/3 and should request him to submit a more detailed budget proposal for consideration at the second part of the resumed sixty-ninth session.
12. The budget document lacked information on the specific coordination role of UNMEER and how that fit into the Ebola response effort of the United Nations system, and on the roles, responsibilities and activities of other entities, such as WHO and the World Food Programme (WFP). The Advisory Committee also
14-67523
3/11
A/C.5/69/SR.25
considered that the budget document should distinguish between the resources proposed for the maintenance of the Mission and those related to the operational activities to be undertaken by UNMEER as part of the United Nations system effort. It highlighted a number of areas that required further clarification and explanation.
13. In general, the Advisory Committee was of the view that the proposed structure for UNMEER appeared to be modelled on a long-term field operation rather than on a mission with a singular strategic objective with operational targets framed in terms of goals to be achieved over 30-day, 60-day and 90-day periods. It also questioned the rationale for proposing a large number of positions for UNMEER headquarters in Accra rather than in the affected countries. In addition, an identical staffing structure was proposed for the country offices, which did not appear to take into account the specific circumstances and requirements of each of the three affected countries.
14. There was a need to streamline and simplify the organizational structure of UNMEER in order to make it more realistic and better aligned with the mandate and operational targets of the Mission. In particular, the number of proposed positions should be reduced to reflect only those that were actually expected to be filled. In addition, given the lack of certainty as to the expected lifespan of the Mission, every effort should be made to seek options for fulfilling the requirements of UNMEER through cost-reimbursement arrangements with neighbouring missions, other United Nations system entities or host Governments before proceeding with the acquisition of equipment, generating new capacities or establishing new infrastructure.
15. With respect to the budgetary and programmatic arrangements proposed for UNMEER, the Advisory Committee questioned the rationale for incorporating the Mission under programme 23, Humanitarian assistance, of the strategic framework, given that the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs was not responsible for the implementation of the UNMEER mandate. Moreover, the proposed budget for UNMEER was more than seven times greater than the 2014-2015 regular budget share of the Office. Since the UNMEER mandate was not of a continuing nature, the Advisory Committee was concerned that the proposed arrangements would create a distortion by artificially inflating the regular budget share of section 27,
Humanitarian affairs, of the programme budget. In view of those concerns, the Advisory Committee recommended that the General Assembly should establish a separate and distinct special account for income and expenditures related to the Office of the Special Envoy on Ebola and UNMEER.
16. The Advisory Committee further recommended that the Assembly should authorize the SecretaryGeneral to enter into commitments in the amount of $104,582,400, inclusive of the amount of $49,943,600 authorized in its resolution 69/3, to provide for the requirements of the Office of the Special Envoy on Ebola and UNMEER for the period from 19 September 2014 to 30 June 2015 pending the submission of a detailed budget at the second part of the resumed sixtyninth session, and that the Assembly should assess a total of $104,582,400 to the related special account. The level of the recommended commitment authority represented a 10 per cent reduction in the prorated level of resources sought by the Secretary-General for the period from 19 September to 31 December 2015.
17. Ms. Rios Requena (Plurinational State of Bolivia), speaking on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, expressed gratitude to United Nations system personnel and the international community as a whole for their commitment to assisting the countries affected by the Ebola outbreak. She paid special tribute to those who had lost their lives in the service of humanity.
18. The General Assembly had established UNMEER by its resolution 69/1 and, by its resolution 69/3, had approved a commitment authority in an amount not exceeding $49.9 million pending submission of the budget for the Mission. By the same resolution, the Assembly had emphasized that adoption of the resolution was without prejudice to any subsequent view on the Mission and any decision on the budgetary arrangements, organizational structure, staffing and operational requirements.
19. The Group was opposed to the extension of the commitment authority recommended by the Advisory Committee and emphasized the importance of adopting a budget and establishing a special account for the Mission in order to allow for proper budgetary and administrative arrangements that would enable the Mission to fulfil its mandate. The Group was disappointed that the budget proposal did not take into account the reservations that had been expressed by delegations when the item was first considered by the
4/11
14-67523
A/C.5/69/SR.25
Committee at its 1st meeting or a number of the observations and recommendations made by the Advisory Committee at that time and endorsed by the Assembly in its resolution 69/3.
20. The world was looking to the United Nations to direct its resources in the most efficient manner in order to meet the needs of Ebola victims. It was unfortunate that those expectations were not reflected in the proposal before the Committee, which included a structure with many high-level positions, failed to address duplication and lacked clarity in many areas.
21. It was her expectation that Member States would be in a position to approve a budget for the Mission, taking into account the Advisory Committee's comments. The Group would engage constructively in informal deliberations with the aim of addressing duplication and overlap in the use of resources and ensuring the establishment of an appropriate structure that took into account the existing infrastructure and systems in the field.
22. Mr. Dosseh (Togo), speaking on behalf of the Group of African States, said that the Ebola outbreak, which had devastated millions of lives, was a threat to peace, security and development in the affected countries and posed a risk in neighbouring countries and the rest of world. He commended the international community for its support for national and regional efforts to combat the disease, thanked all those who had risked their lives to save those affected by the virus, and paid tribute to those who had lost their lives in that effort.
23. While the Group welcomed the SecretaryGeneral's resource proposal for UNMEER for 20142015, it generally concurred with the observations and recommendations of the Advisory Committee. It was a matter of deep concern that the proposal lacked clarity and detailed information concerning the proposed organizational structure, staffing and resource requirements of the Mission. In particular, the topheavy structure meant that substantive resources would go to support overhead costs rather than the actual needs in the field. Furthermore, the proposal did not appear to take into account existing mechanisms in the region.
24. The Group supported approval of the budget proposal - with adjustments - and the establishment of a separate account. It would present specific proposals aimed at ensuring that the majority of
resources were directed towards substantive requirements, including financial support for the affected countries and equipment and facilities to track, contain and eliminate the disease. There should also be a mechanism that would make lasting improvements to the local public health infrastructure.
25. There must be a clear chain of command, accountability and proper governance among the many entities involved. The principle of delivering as one should apply, so that the Mission complemented the efforts of key actors with technical expertise, such as WHO and WFP. In informal consultations, the Group would seek clarification on all of those issues and on the planned activities for 2015.
26. Mr. Minami (Japan) said that his Government had allocated $55 million and pledged an additional contribution of up to $100 million to support the efforts to address the Ebola crisis. That assistance had been used for treatment of patients and to help rebuild the health systems and stabilize the social situation in the affected countries. Japan had sent 11 medical experts to the affected countries through WHO and had provided in-kind contributions, including over 700,000 sets of personal protective equipment. Its researchers were working to develop promising medical drugs that might be effective against Ebola disease.
27. Noting that the Advisory Committee recommended the authorization of a commitment authority for nine months and the establishment of a separate account for income and expenditure, he said that, while his delegation fully supported the activities of UNMEER, it would scrutinize the proposed resource requirements for the Mission and the question of how the budget proposal fit into the overall programme budget.
28. Mr. Koroma (Sierra Leone) said that his Government was grateful to its development partners and the United Nations system for their invaluable contributions in eradicating Ebola virus disease. His delegation welcomed the adoption of Security Council resolution 2177 (2014), which recognized the outbreak as a threat to international peace and security, as well as the adoption of General Assembly resolution 69/1 and the Secretary-General's initiative in establishing UNMEER.
29. The unprecedented Ebola outbreak in West Africa had created a devastating social and humanitarian crisis that was reversing the economic growth achieved
14-67523
5/11
A/C.5/69/SR.25
in Sierra Leone in recent years. To date, 6,000 Sierra Leoneans had been infected and some 1,500 individuals had died. Alarmingly, over two thirds of those infected were age 15 to 55, the most economically vibrant segment of the population. Non-Ebola illnesses added to the toll, as hospital staff hesitated to admit new patients for fear of contracting Ebola. The risk was real, as 11 senior medical doctors and many more nurses had fallen victim to the virus. Nevertheless, over 1,200 patients had been treated and discharged from hospital and his Government was hopeful that, with the robust action it was currently taking in western Sierra Leone, the disease would be eradicated from the country by the end of March 2015. With the assistance of development partners, Sierra Leone had opened new treatment and holding centres with laboratory facilities. Nevertheless, there was a need for more medical personnel, protective equipment, beds and drugs.
30. Activities in many economic sectors had contracted, posing a threat to economic stability, peace and security, human development, and poverty reduction programmes. There had also been a negative impact on national social development programmes, particularly in health and education, with the erosion of health care services for women and children and the closure of schools and post-secondary institutions. More women than men had contracted Ebola owing to their primary role as caregivers in the family and the health care system. His delegation would therefore welcome greater opportunities for women to participate in UNMEER, including at the decisionmaking level. Only a robust and concerted effort to eradicate Ebola could prevent a complete reversal of his country's post-conflict achievements. He urged the international community to consider contributing in the post-Ebola period to rebuilding the country's socioeconomic infrastructure so that it might speedily regain the ground lost in its development efforts.
31. Mr. Kisoka (United Republic of Tanzania) said that the international community's efforts to combat the Ebola outbreak were commendable and paid tribute to those who had lost their lives in service to humanity.
32. His delegation was concerned that the budget proposal under consideration failed to address a number of issues that had been raised by Member States and the Advisory Committee when the Fifth Committee had considered the item at its 1st meeting. During the Committee's deliberations, he would seek
to ensure that the resources for UNMEER were directed towards meeting needs in the field - including through support that would enable local authorities to strengthen the health care infrastructure and carry out activities that would continue beyond the Mission's lifespan - rather than towards covering the costs of a top-heavy administrative structure.
33. Ms. Mukashyaka (Rwanda), Vice-Chair, took the Chair.
Programme budget implications of draft resolution A/69/L.43 on organization of the United Nations summit for the adoption of the post-2015 development agenda and draft decision A/69/L.44 on dates for the meetings of the process of intergovernmental negotiations on the post-2015 development agenda (A/C.5/69/15)
Contingency fund: consolidated statement of programme budget implications and revised estimates (A/C.5/69/16)
34. Mr. Ramanathan (Deputy Controller), introducing the Secretary-General's statement of the programme budget implications of draft resolution A/69/L.43 on organization of the United Nations summit for the adoption of the post-2015 development agenda and draft decision A/69/L.44 on dates for the meetings of the process of intergovernmental negotiations on the post-2015 development agenda (A/C.5/69/15), said that, under the terms of paragraphs 1, 4 and 11 of draft resolution A/69/L.43, the General Assembly would decide that the United Nations Summit for the adoption of the post-2015 development agenda, comprising high-level plenary meetings of the Assembly and interactive dialogues, would be held from 25 to 27 September 2015 in New York. Under the terms of paragraphs 1 and 4 of draft decision A/69/L.44, the Assembly would decide to convene meetings of the process of intergovernmental negotiations on the post-2015 development agenda.
35. Should the Assembly adopt the draft resolution and draft decision, additional resources in the amount of $1,314,900 would be required for 2015 in order to implement the Assembly's requests. As there was no provision for those activities in the programme budget for the biennium 2014-2015, it was proposed that that amount should be approved as a charge against the contingency fund.
6/11
14-67523
A/C.5/69/SR.25
36. Turning to the Secretary-GeneraTs report on the contingency fund (A/C.5/69/16), which contained a consolidated statement of programme budget implications and revised estimates, he said that the report was submitted pursuant to the annex to General Assembly resolution 42/211. In its resolutions 68/247 A and B, 68/268, 68/279 and 69/16, the Assembly had approved total charges in the amount of $26.6 million, leaving a balance of $13.8 million in the contingency fund.
37. The potential charges included in the report amounted to $25.4 million, which exceeded the remaining balance of the contingency fund by $11.6 million. The Advisory Committee had subsequently made recommendations on the revised estimates resulting from resolutions and decisions of the Human Rights Council and the programme budget implications of decisions on the post-2015 development agenda that would reduce the potential charges to $24.6 million, which exceeded the remaining balance by $10.8 million. While efforts had been made to absorb the additional requirements within the programme budget, their magnitude did not allow for full absorption.
38. He recalled that, on a recommendation of the Committee for Programme and Coordination, the Assembly by its resolution 48/228 A had discontinued the practice of identifying high- and low-priority outputs or activities in the programme budget. As the current budget format no longer contained prioritysetting information approved by Member States, the reallocation or reduction of resources through the deferral, termination or curtailment of mandated activities based on prioritization would require the Assembly's approval. In view of that situation, and subject to further review by the Assembly of the respective proposals and the related recommendations of the Advisory Committee, the Assembly was requested to consider the potential charges against the contingency fund outlined in the report.
39. Mr. Ruiz Massieu (Chair of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions), said that, owing to time constraints, the Advisory Committee would not introduce written reports on the items under consideration. Presenting the oral report of the Advisory Committee on the programme budget implications of draft resolution A/69/L.43 and draft decision A/69/L.44, he said that the total additional requirements reported by the
Secretary-General amounted to $1,314,900. The Secretary-General had indicated that that amount would represent a charge against the contingency fund and would therefore require the Assembly's approval for an additional appropriation for the biennium 2014-2015.
40. With respect to the requirements under budget section 2, General Assembly and Economic and Social Council affairs and conference management, the Secretary-General had stated that the United Nations summit would comprise three days of 17 meetings in all six languages, including 11 plenary meetings, and would constitute an addition to the meetings workload for 2015. In addition, the request for a summary of the hearings to be made available prior to the summit would add one pre-session document of 10,700 words in all six languages to the documentation workload. It was also stated that the Department for General Assembly and Conference Management would require additional protocol staff from duty stations away from Headquarters for the summit and overtime costs for meetings servicing and documentation staff. In addition, the intergovernmental negotiations on the post-2015 development agenda would comprise 72 meetings in all six languages, thus adding further to the meetings workload. The Advisory Committee had no objection to the proposed additional requirements under section 2 in the amount of $1,108,800. It intended to examine the costing model for the processing of official documents at the four duty stations - New York, Geneva, Vienna and Nairobi - in greater detail when it considered the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2016-2017.
41. Under section 28, Public information, the estimated requirements in the amount of $153,200 would provide for media outreach activities to raise public awareness and other information services, including media coverage of the summit. Upon inquiry, the Advisory Committee had been informed that expenditure under that section of the programme budget as at the end of October 2014 amounted to $76.2 million. It was further informed that the preliminary expenditure as at 30 November 2014 amounted to $84,144,400 against the allotment of $93,784,200 under that section. While the Advisory Committee had no objection to the amount of $153,200 being requested, it was of the view that, taking into account the status of expenditure, that amount could be absorbed.
14-67523
7/11
A/C.5/69/SR.25
42. Lastly, under section 34, Safety and security, the Secretary-General requested the amount of $52,900 for overtime of security officers owing to the high-level nature of the summit and the anticipated large size of delegations. Upon inquiry, the Advisory Committee was informed that expenditure under section 34 as at the end of October 2014 amounted to $110.3 million and was further informed that preliminary expenditure as at 30 November 2014 amounted to $117,224,200 against the allotment of $119,964,200. Given the status of expenditure, the Advisory Committee considered that there was little scope for absorbing additional requirements; consequently, it had no objection to the proposed additional requirements.
43. In conclusion, the Advisory Committee recommended that the Fifth Committee should inform the General Assembly that, should the Assembly adopt draft resolution A/69/L.43 and draft decision A/69/L.44, an additional appropriation of $1,161,700 would be required, representing a charge against the contingency fund, under section 2 and section 34 of the programme budget for 2014-2015. The Advisory Committee recommended the absorption of $153,200 under section 28 of the programme budget.
44. Presenting the Advisory Committee's oral report on the contingency fund, he recalled that the Assembly had decided, in its resolution 67/248, that the level of the contingency fund for the biennium 2014-2015 should be set at 0.75 per cent of the overall resource level, or $40,445,043. The Secretary-General had indicated that the balance available in the fund for 2014-2015 was $13,836,000, following additional charges amounting to $8,502,000 approved by the Assembly at the resumed sixty-eighth session and the main part of the sixty-ninth session. Upon inquiry, the Advisory Committee had been informed that those charges related to revised estimates under section 22, Economic and social development in Western Asia, and section 33, Construction, alteration, improvement and major maintenance, of the programme budget for the biennium 2014-2015, pursuant to General Assembly resolution 68/247 B; strengthening and enhancing the effective functioning of the human rights treaty body system, pursuant to resolution 68/268; the Third International Conference on Financing for Development, pursuant to resolution 68/279; and the programme of activities for the implementation of the International Decade for People of African Descent, pursuant to resolution 69/16. According to the
Secretary-General, potential new charges to the fund amounting to $25,422,100 exceeded the remaining balance of the contingency fund by $11,586,100.
45. The Advisory Committee had been informed that revised estimates and programme budget implications that would give rise to resource requirements not included in the proposed programme budget were generally proposed by the Secretary-General as a charge against the contingency fund in accordance with resolutions 41/213 and 42/211. It had also been informed that, considering the magnitude of resources proposed for the strategic heritage plan, amounting to $28.4 million, the Secretary-General had decided to request an additional appropriation outside the provisions for the contingency fund.
46. The amounts proposed for absorption out of the additional requirements resulting from new and expanded mandates were set out in paragraph 4 of the Secretary-General's report (A/C.5/69/16). It was indicated that a review of the financial implications arising from the adoption of draft resolutions by the Main Committees had led to the identification of $502,400 to be absorbed within approved resources for the biennium 2014-2015. The Secretary-General also indicated, however, that the magnitude of the additional requirements did not allow for full absorption.
47. In a previous report on the contingency fund (A/67/650), the Advisory Committee had noted that the projected overexpenditure compared with the established level of the contingency fund for 20122013 did not appear to constitute a long-term trend but rather reflected an exceptionally high level of legislative activity for the period. In its consideration of the current proposals, the Advisory Committee noted that the potential charges against the contingency fund for 2014-2015 once again exceeded the available balance. The Advisory Committee reiterated its view that the contingency fund was an essential budgetary instrument for addressing additional resource requirements and emphasized the need to adhere to the provisions of General Assembly resolutions 41/213 and 42/211 on its use.
48. With respect to the Secretary-General's request in paragraph 7 of his report (A/C.5/69/16), the General Assembly might wish to consider the potential charges against the contingency fund related to new and expanded mandates and offer guidance accordingly.
8/11
14-67523
A/C.5/69/SR.25
49. Ms. Rios Requena (Plurinational State of Bolivia), speaking on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, said that the United Nations summit for the adoption of the post-2015 development agenda would fulfil a central mandate from the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20) and the special event on the Millennium Development Goals convened by the President of the General Assembly in 2013. That mandate was to renew the collective efforts to eradicate poverty by achieving sustainable development based on global goals and targets applicable to all countries. The Group fully supported the provision of the resources requested by the Secretary-General, should the Assembly adopt draft resolution A/69/L.43 and draft decision A/69/L.44. Adequate resources should be provided under the regular budget to ensure the implementation of all mandates approved by intergovernmental bodies of the United Nations.
Agenda item 166: Financing of the African UnionUnited Nations Hybrid Operation in Darfur
(A/69/549 and A/69/671)
50. Mr. Ramanathan (Deputy Controller), introducing the Secretary-General's report on the revised budget for the African Union-United Nations Hybrid Operation in Darfur (UNAMID) for the period from 1 July 2014 to 30 June 2015 (A/69/549), said that the revised budget addressed the concerns raised by the Advisory Committee in its previous report on UNAMID (A/68/7 82/Add. 15) and reflected the implementation of the recommendations of the strategic review undertaken by UNAMID at the request of the Security Council in its resolution 2113 (2013). The requirements for the mission amounted to $1,206.5 million, which represented a reduction of $128.7 million, or 9.6 per cent, compared to the appropriation of $1,335.2 million for 2013/14. The revised 2014/15 budget reflected the drawdown of military contingents and United Nations police personnel in accordance with Security Council resolution 2173 (2014), a net reduction of 770 posts and positions, and the reconfiguration of the mission's air transportation assets.
51. Mr. Ruiz Massieu (Chair of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions), introducing the related report of the Advisory Committee (A/69/671), said that the Advisory Committee recommended a reduction to the
proposed budget for UNAMID in the amount of $58.8 million, or 4.9 per cent, under the resource categories of uniformed personnel, civilian personnel, official travel, and facilities and infrastructure.
52. The Secretary-General's report on UNAMID (A/69/549) contained a number of errors and some additional information had been received late, all of which had affected the Advisory Committee's ability to analyse the budget estimates in a timely manner. The Advisory Committee trusted that those shortcomings would be addressed in future reports.
53. Based on the information it had received
concerning the civilian staffing review undertaken pursuant to General Assembly resolution 66/264 and the strategic review conducted pursuant to Security Council resolution 2113 (2014), the Advisory
Committee had been unable to determine the budgetary impact of each review and requested that the information should be provided to the Assembly. The Advisory Committee was of the view that the proposed reductions in the mission's uniformed and civilian personnel should be factored into the corresponding vacancy rates. In addition, any proposals for the establishment of new posts or the redeployment of posts should be properly justified.
54. The Advisory Committee was concerned at the anomalies observed whereby official travel for activities related to training was categorized as non-training travel. That practice reflected the improper application of General Assembly resolution 67/254 A and had adverse cost implications for the Organization. Noting the efforts made by UNAMID to achieve economies through the reconfiguration of its aviation fleet and the reduction of its light vehicle fleet, the Advisory Committee requested the SecretaryGeneral to report on the results in future submissions. Lastly, the Advisory Committee urged the Operation to intensify its efforts to implement construction projects and quick-impact projects.
55. Mr. Dosseh (Togo), speaking on behalf of the Group of African States, said that the late submission of documents remained a matter of great concern; it was unfortunate that such an important agenda item as the financing of UNAMID was being taken up just a few days before the end of the main part of the session. The Group also shared the concerns of the Advisory Committee about the quality of the Secretary-General's report and the delay in providing responses to queries.
14-67523
9/11
A/C.5/69/SR.25
It was his understanding that the Secretary-General was taking action to address those issues.
56. The proposed reduction in the budget for UNAMID was a matter of concern, as the Group deemed it an arbitrary cost-cutting exercise that could have a negative impact on the implementation of mandates. In the informal consultations, he would seek clarification on a number of matters, including the reorganization of some structures, the 24-per-cent reduction in staffing and the implementation of quickimpact projects. Timely reimbursement for troops and contingent-owned equipment and the timely settlement of death and disability claims remained matters of priority for the Group.
57. The Operation should align its activities with the priorities set by the Security Council in its resolution 2173 (2014), that is, the protection of civilians, delivery of humanitarian assistance, and safety and security of humanitarian personnel; mediation between the Government of the Sudan and armed movements based on the Doha Document for Peace in Darfur; and support for mediation of community conflict. The Group remained concerned that the Security Council had encroached on the mandate of the General Assembly by including the mission's civilian component in its strategic review; each body must respect the prerogatives of the other.
58. Mr. Saeed (Sudan) said that the late issuance of the documents for the current item had left Member States with insufficient time to examine them. The issue of late documentation had become a chronic problem for the Fifth Committee and there was an urgent need to find a comprehensive solution.
59. The Sudan was satisfied with the role played by UNAMID in supporting the Government's efforts to strengthen peace and stability in Darfur within the framework of the Doha Document for Peace in Darfur. The processes under way in the area to restore peace and State authority were crucial; his Government would continue to cooperate with the mission in order to enable it to fulfil its mandate. In December 2014, the Sudan had hosted a joint delegation of the African Union and United Nations in order to establish a clear and time-bound exit strategy for UNAMID. The necessary budgetary support should be provided to ensure the success of that strategy.
60. Quick-impact projects, whose implementation had slowed since 2012, were important in supporting
government efforts to meet the concerns of local communities and promote reconciliation and peaceful coexistence. Additional resources should be dedicated to such projects and they should be implemented in a timely manner in cooperation with the authorities in Darfur. Another important aspect of UNAMID was its implementation of major multi-year projects, such as the construction of roads, airports and solar power plants, which had a positive impact on the daily life of local populations.
61. The size of UNAMID and the magnitude of its activities had had a considerable environmental impact on the local populations. The Operation should step up its efforts to address that impact, particularly through better waste disposal, the adoption of environmentally friendly construction techniques, lower fuel consumption, greater reliance on solar power, and more tree-planting projects.
62. He noted with concern the large decrease in the number of national posts in UNAMID, notwithstanding, in particular, General Assembly resolution 66/264 calling for the nationalization of Field Service posts in the context of comprehensive civilian staffing reviews. His delegation encouraged the Department of Peacekeeping Operations to develop proposals to substantially decrease the ranks of formed military and police units and reduce the number of international posts as a first step towards the implementation of the exit strategy. While he welcomed the SecretaryGeneral's proposal to convert 22 international posts and 31 United Nations Volunteer positions to 53 national posts, effective 1 April 2015, the proposal to abolish 209 national posts had no compelling justification and was contrary to the spirit and letter of the relevant United Nations resolutions.
63. Lastly, he reiterated his delegation's call that UNAMID should procure more products and services from local suppliers. The Sudan was rich in agricultural and animal resources and could meet the Operation's needs in accordance with United Nations procurement standards.
Organization of work
64. Mr. Khalizov (Russian Federation) said that, regrettably, a number of documents under consideration at the current meeting had not been translated into all six official languages. While his delegation had agreed to their introduction, taking into
10/11
14-67523
A/C.5/69/SR.25
account the status of the Committee's work, that decision was an exception that did not set a precedent for the future.
65. Mr. Saeed (Sudan) wished to know why the Advisory Committee's report on UNAMID (A/69/671) had been issued only the previous day and only in English.
66. Ms. Smolcic (Uruguay) said that the formal introduction of reports just days before the end of the session would have an adverse effect on the Committee's consideration of the matters before it and on its decision-making. The trend had been worsening steadily, and a situation previously seen as extraordinary had become habitual. Departments responsible for drafting reports should review the situation immediately and accountability should be exercised. A collective effort was required to achieve a successful outcome.
67. Mr. Ruiz Massieu (Chair of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions), responding to the query from the representative of the Sudan, said that the Advisory Committee's report on UNAMID had been produced within the normal time frame of four to five weeks after receipt of the Secretary-General's report; that report had been submitted to the Advisory Committee only in mid-November. It was to be hoped that the issue of late documentation could be resolved soon. The Advisory Committee stood ready to do its part to find a solution.
68. Mr. Ramanathan (Deputy Controller) said that the Secretariat had had difficulty in producing the five additional reports requested for the main part of the sixty-ninth session. It had striven to do so without affecting the work already under way on other reports. Collective efforts were being made by the Secretariat as well as the bureaux and secretariats of the Fifth Committee and the Advisory Committee in order to address the problem in a holistic manner.
The meeting rose at 5 p.m.
14-67523
11/11