United Nations
A/C.5/68/SR.26
General Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
Official Records
Distr.: General 20 January 2014
Original: English
Fifth Committee
Summary record of the 26th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Friday, 27 December 2013, at 10 a.m.
Chair: Mr. Taalas (Finland)
Chair of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions: Mr. Ruiz Massieu
Contents
Agenda item 137: Pattern of conferences (continued)
Agenda item 138: Scale of assessments for the apportionment of the expenses of the United Nations (continued)
Agenda item 139: Human resources management (continued)
Agenda item 141: United Nations common system (continued)
Agenda item 143: Administration of justice at the United Nations (continued)
Agenda item 144: Financing of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Genocide and Other Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of Rwanda and Rwandan Citizens Responsible for Genocide and Other Such Violations Committed in the Territory of Neighbouring States between 1 January and 31 December 1994 (continued)
Agenda item 145: Financing of the International Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of the Former Yugoslavia since 1991 (continued)
Agenda item 146: Financing of the International Residual Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals (continued)
Agenda item 148: Financing of the United Nations Interim Security Force for Abyei (continued)
Agenda item 158: Financing of the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali (continued)
This record is subject to correction. Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Control Unit (srcorrections@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
13-63373 (E)
lllllllllllllllllllllllll
A/C.5/68/SR.26
Agenda item 159: Financing of the United Nations peacekeeping forces in the Middle East (continued)
(a) United Nations Disengagement Observer Force (continued)
Agenda item 133: Programme budget for the biennium 2012-2013 (continued)
Agenda item 134: Proposed programme budget for the biennium 2014-2015 (continued)
Programme budget implications relating to the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2014-2015
Questions relating to the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2014-2015
Draft report of the Fifth Committee
Agenda item 132: Review of the efficiency of the administrative and financial functioning of the United Nations (continued)
Questions deferred for future consideration
Completion of the work of the Fifth Committee at the main part of the sixty-eighth session of the General Assembly
2/10
13-63373
A/C.5/68/SR.26
The meeting was called to order at 10.20 a.m.
1. The Chair informed the Committee that, as most of the draft resolutions and decisions to be considered at the current meeting had been finalized very recently, they were provisional and available in English only. They would be issued in all six official languages as soon as possible.
Agenda item 137: Pattern of conferences
(continued) (A/C.5/68/L.11)
Draft resolution A/C.5/68/L.11: Pattern of conferences
2. Draft resolution A/C.5/68/L.11 was adopted.
Agenda item 138: Scale of assessments for the apportionment of the expenses of the United Nations
(continued) (A/C.5/68/L.10)
Draft decision A/C.5/68/L.10: Scale of assessments for the apportionment of the expenses of the United Nations
3. Draft decision A/C.5/68/L. 10 was adopted.
4. Mr. Quinn (Canada) said that, while the draft decision was purely procedural in nature, his delegation did not recognize a State of Palestine, and therefore objected to the reference to a “State of Palestine” in the text. His country supported a twostate solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, reached through a negotiated agreement between the parties that would guarantee the right of Israel to live in peace and security with its neighbours and would lead to the establishment of a viable and independent Palestinian State. Palestinian statehood was not simply a question of membership or observer State status in international organizations, but rather of reaching a negotiated agreement between the parties on permanent status issues, such as borders, security, refugees and Jerusalem.
5. Mr. Goren (Israel) said that his delegation regretted and objected to the use of the misleading term “State of Palestine” in the draft decision. It was counterproductive to use that term when no such State existed and when such a State could be established only through direct negotiations, as had been affirmed repeatedly by the international community and agreed between the parties. There was only one route to Palestinian statehood and it did not run through the Committee chamber in New York, but rather through direct negotiations between the two parties. He reiterated the position expressed by the Israeli
Ambassador to the United Nations on 29 November 2012 in the General Assembly and on 23 January 2013 in the Security Council, and said that his delegation was compelled to dissociate itself from the draft decision.
6. Ms. Carayanides (Australia) said that her delegation supported the decision to endorse the recommendations of the Committee on Contributions, which would enable the Palestinian delegation to make contributions to the United Nations budget under the same procedure as the Holy See. However, her delegation reiterated its view that General Assembly resolution 67/19 did not confer statehood. Her country had long supported a negotiated two-State solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict that would allow a secure Israel to live alongside an independent Palestinian State. Australia's support for the current round of negotiations remained steadfast and it encouraged both sides to continue their efforts to make progress in those negotiations so that the two-State solution might finally be realized.
7. Ms. Norman (United States of America), recalling the explanation of vote made by the United States Ambassador to the United Nations on 29 November 2012 in connection with the adoption of General Assembly resolution 67/19, and the statement she had made in the Security Council on 23 January 2013, said that her delegation's position regarding the status of Palestine had not changed. That position applied to all uses of the term “State of Palestine” in all subsidiary bodies of the General Assembly, and in the Assembly itself, irrespective of whether her delegation took the floor.
8. Ms. Husseini (Saudi Arabia), speaking on behalf of the League of Arab States, said that the League noted with pleasure that the State of Palestine had begun contributing to the budget after being accorded non-member observer State status in the United Nations. She also wished to thank the Chair of the Committee for submitting the draft decision, which had been adopted by consensus.
Agenda item 139: Human resources management
(continued) (A/C.5/68/L.25)
Draft decision A/C.5/68/L.25: Human resources management
9. The Chair said that the Secretary-General had expressed his disappointment that the Committee had not been able to reach an agreement on the managed
13-63373
3/10
A/C.5/68/SR.26
mobility initiative during the current session. Due to the extremely complicated and protracted budget negotiations, the Committee had not been able to complete its work on that important item. Under those exceptional circumstances, the Committee had deferred the item to the first part of the resumed session, as the mobility initiative was of great significance to the Organization and must be addressed as a matter of priority.
10. Ms. Paik Ji-ah (Republic of Korea) said that her delegation regretted that agreement could not be reached on the managed mobility proposal. Consideration of the matter would now be deferred by the Committee for the second time. Member States had once again failed to provide the Secretariat with clear guidance on a major human resources management policy issue. It was to be hoped that the Committee would be able to take a decision on mobility when the proposal was re-examined at the first part of the resumed session. At that time, the Secretariat should do its best to address Member States' concerns thoroughly, so that there would be no further delay. On that understanding, her delegation would not stand in the way of consensus on the draft decision.
11. Draft decision A/C.5/68/L.25 was adopted.
Agenda item 141: United Nations common system
(continued) (A/C.5/68/L.17)
Draft resolution A/C.5/68/L.17: United Nations common system
12. Draft resolution A/C.5/68/L. 17 was adopted.
Agenda item 143: Administration of justice at the United Nations (continued) (A/C.5/68/L.7)
Draft resolution A/C.5/68/L. 7: Administration of justice at the United Nations
13. Draft resolution A/C.5/68/L. 7 was adopted.
Agenda item 144: Financing of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Genocide and Other Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of Rwanda and Rwandan Citizens Responsible for Genocide and Other Such Violations Committed in the Territory of Neighbouring States between 1 January and 31 December 1994 (continued) (A/C.5/68/L.14)
Draft resolution A/C.5/68/L.14: Financing of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Genocide and Other Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of Rwanda and Rwandan Citizens Responsible for Genocide and Other Such Violations Committed in the Territory of Neighbouring States between 1 January and 31 December 1994
14. Draft resolution A/C.5/68/L.14 was adopted.
Agenda item 145: Financing of the International Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of the Former Yugoslavia since 1991 (continued) (A/C.5/68/L.15)
Draft resolution A/C.5/68/L.15: Financing of the International Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of the Former Yugoslavia since 1991
15. Draft resolution A/C.5/68/L.15 was adopted.
Agenda item 146: Financing of the International Residual Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals
(continued) (A/C.5/68/L.16)
Draft resolution A/C.5/68/L.16: Financing of the International Residual Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals
16. Draft resolution A/C.5/68/L.16 was adopted.
17. Mr. Pankin (Russian Federation) said that, while his delegation had not opposed the adoption of the draft resolution, it regretted that its proposals to strengthen the Tribunals' budgetary discipline and to conduct an independent evaluation of the effectiveness of the International Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia had not been reflected in the adopted text, despite the fact that the Tribunals' effectiveness was increasingly questionable, as were their transparency and accountability. In the absence of further significant progress towards the completion of the Tribunals' work and the transfer of their functions to the International Residual Mechanism in the future, decisive measures would have to be taken, including a comprehensive evaluation of their work.
Agenda item 148: Financing of the United Nations Interim Security Force for Abyei
(continued) (A/C.5/68/L.9)
4/10
13-63373
A/C.5/68/SR.26
Draft resolution A/C.5/68/L.9: Financing of the United Nations Interim Security Force for Abyei
18. Draft resolution A/C.5/68/L.9 was adopted.
Agenda item 158: Financing of the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali (continued) (A/C.5/68/L.13)
Draft resolution A/C.5/68/L.13: Financing of the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali
19. Draft resolution A/C.5/68/L.13 was adopted.
Agenda item 159: Financing of the United Nations peacekeeping forces in the Middle East (continued)
(a) United Nations Disengagement Observer Force (continued) (A/C.5/68/L.8)
Draft resolution A/C.5/68/L.8: Financing of the United Nations Disengagement Observer Force
20. Draft resolution A/C.5/68/L.8 was adopted.
21. Mr. Ayzouki (Syrian Arab Republic) said that, although his delegation had joined the consensus on the draft resolution, it wished to reiterate that the financing of the United Nations Disengagement Observer Force (UNDOF) should be borne by Israel, the occupying Power. That position was consistent with the principles set out in General Assembly resolution 1874 (S-IV).
Statements made in exercise of the right of reply
22. Mr. Goren (Israel) said that his delegation took issue with the comments made by the representative of Syria. It should not come as a surprise that the representative of Syria had decided to lecture Israel on terrorism, given that the Syrian Government was an expert on the subject. Having killed over 100,000 of its own people, it seemed that the Syrian regime specialized not only in terrorism and chemical weapons but also in the export of lies and misinformation.
23. Mr. Ayzouki (Syrian Arab Republic) said that it was not surprising that the representative of the Israeli occupation authorities, who were experts in terrorism and killing, should utter such lies. Those authorities continued to kill Palestinian, Syrian and Lebanese civilians, confiscate property, displace persons from their homes and defy all United Nations resolutions
and international law. The representative of Israel was advised to remain silent and show respect for the Committee. It should not be forgotten that UNDOF had been established because Israel had occupied the Syrian Golan.
24. Mr. Goren (Israel) said that his delegation had supported the important draft resolution on the financing of UNDOF. The baseless allegations launched by the representative of Syria were preferable to the missiles and rockets that the Syrian Government had launched to kill its own innocent civilians.
25. Mr. Ayzouki (Syrian Arab Republic) said that he once again advised the representative of Israel to remain silent and show respect for the Committee. It would have been more appropriate for him to admit that the Israeli authorities were responsible for the occupation of the Syrian Golan and to declare that they would assume responsibility for the financing of UNDOF.
Agenda item 133: Programme budget for the biennium 2012-2013 (continued) (A/C.5/68/L.6 and A/C.5/68/L.18)
Draft resolution A/C.5/68/L. 6: Managing after-service health insurance
26. Draft resolution A/C.5/68/L.6 was adopted.
Draft resolution A/C.5/68/L.18: Programme budget for the biennium 2012-2013
27. Ms. Casar (Controller), recalling that, during the negotiations, clarification had been sought with regard to the impact of reducing the resource allocation for unliquidated obligations by $40 million, said that the Secretariat would implement that decision before the end of 2013 in the best possible manner. Departments would need to make the necessary adjustments to their projected expenditures. The mandates for 2012-2013 had already been implemented and were not expected to be impacted further. Nevertheless, the adjustments to the 2012-2013 resource levels might imply a deferral of expenditures and could therefore place an additional burden on the 2014-2015 budgets of the respective departments. Such additional pressure, combined with other General Assembly decisions to reduce non-post resources further for 2014-2015, was putting the Organization under increasing strain. While it was not currently possible to project any specific impact of the decision on the Organization's work, every effort
13-63373
5/10
A/C.5/68/SR.26
would be made to minimize the impact and to implement the Secretariat's mandates in full.
28. Draft resolution A/C.5/68/L.18 was adopted.
Agenda item 134: Proposed programme budget for the biennium 2014-2015 (continued)
Programme budget implications relating to the proposed programme budget for the biennium 20142015 (A/C.5/68/L.12)
Draft decision A/C.5/68/L.12: Programme budget implications relating to the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2014-2015
29. Mr. Ayzouki (Syrian Arab Republic) said that, with regard to section D of the draft decision, which related to the United Nations Human Rights Training and Documentation Centre for South-West Asia and the Arab Region, his delegation supported funding the Centre in part from the United Nations regular budget. Doing so would enable Member States to monitor the Centre's work and ensure that it was not unduly politicized by the host country. However, the Centre's budget was too large and an unjustifiably large proportion of the funding had been shifted from extrabudgetary resources to the regular budget. His delegation had raised questions in that regard in informal consultations, but had not received satisfactory answers.
30. Accordingly, his delegation had proposed amendments to the draft decision with a view to arriving at a consensus regarding the funding of the Centre. Unfortunately, other delegations had not shown the same flexibility or willingness to negotiate. He was therefore obliged to call for a recorded vote on section D of the draft decision.
31. Mr. Al-Kuwari (Qatar), speaking in explanation of vote before the voting, said that his delegation would vote in favour of section D of the draft decision and urged others to do the same.
32. At the request of the Syrian Arab Republic a recorded vote was taken on section D of the draft decision.
In favour:
Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Bolivia (Plurinational
State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Cameroon, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Estonia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Libya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen.
Against:
Benin, Haiti, Syrian Arab Republic.
Abstaining:
Burkina Faso, Ethiopia.
33. Section D of draft decision A/C.5/68/L.12 was adopted by 134 votes to 3, with 2 abstentions.1
34. Ms. Husseini (Saudi Arabia) said that she wished to thank all delegations that had voted in favour of section D of the draft decision. Providing the Centre with resources from the regular budget would help it to continue fulfilling its mandate.
1 The delegations of Benin and Haiti subsequently informed the Committee secretariat that they had intended to vote in favour of section D of the draft decision.
6/10
13-63373
A/C.5/68/SR.26
35. Mr. Al-Kuwari (Qatar) said that, in keeping with the great importance it attached to protecting human rights, Qatar did everything possible to ensure that the Centre was able to fulfil its mandate. Accordingly, his delegation had strived to secure funding for the Centre from the regular budget. Those efforts were an indication that Qatar had no interest in politicizing the Centre's work. Moreover, his Government had adhered scrupulously to the host country agreement. It was the Syrian regime that was politicizing the matter by refusing to provide the Centre with the support it needed, and that position was consistent with the regime's ongoing violation of the Syrian people's human rights.
36. Mr. Ayzouki (Syrian Arab Republic), speaking in exercise of the right of reply, said that his delegation had clearly stated that it supported the funding proposal for the Centre but was concerned at the broad changes to the manner in which the Centre was funded. He had not made any accusations and was disappointed that the representative of Qatar had made unfounded allegations and chosen to speak of the internal affairs of the Syrian Arab Republic. The representative of Qatar was fully aware that his Government supported terrorism and was hindering international efforts to arrive at a political solution to the Syrian crisis. The Qatari Government was also continuing its efforts to undermine the sovereignty of the Syrian Arab Republic and dispatching foreign mercenaries and terrorists to kill Syrian civilians. The representative of Qatar could rest assured that both the Syrian and Qatari people would hold the Qatari authorities accountable for their support of terrorism.
37. Draft decision A/C.5/68/L.12 was adopted as a whole.
Draft resolution A/C.5/68/L.19: Questions relating to the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2014-2015
38. Draft resolution A/C.5/68/L.19 was adopted.
Draft report of the Fifth Committee (A/C.5/68/L.24)
39. The Chair drew attention to the draft report of the Fifth Committee (A/C.5/68/L.24), which described the actions taken by the Committee and also contained its recommendations.
40. Ms. Casar (Controller) said that, in chapter I of the draft report, the reference to one P-4 post on page 13 should be deleted.
41. The Chair invited the Committee to consider the draft resolutions in chapter III.
Draft resolution I: Questions relating to the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2014-2015
42. The Chair recalled that draft resolution I had been adopted earlier in the meeting.
Draft resolution II: Special subjects relating to the proposed programme budget for the biennium 20142015 (A/C.5/68/L.20)
43. Ms. Goicochea (Cuba), speaking also on behalf of the Plurinational State of Bolivia, Ecuador and the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, proposed an oral amendment to section VI of the draft resolution, as the text entailed approval of activities and outputs on the responsibility to protect in the strategic framework of the Office of the Special Adviser to the SecretaryGeneral on the Prevention of Genocide, despite the fact that there was no intergovernmental agreement on the concept's definition, scope or possible implementation methods. Therefore, including such activities was a violation of General Assembly resolutions, as well as the Regulations and Rules Governing Programme Planning, the Programme Aspects of the Budget, the Monitoring of Implementation and the Methods of Evaluation, and could damage the chances of agreement on the related budget estimates.
44. While the delegations for which she spoke reiterated their support for the activities of the Special Adviser and their commitment to international law, until there was a decision by the General Assembly on the matter, all references to the responsibility to protect should be removed from the budget document. She therefore proposed that four additional paragraphs should be inserted in section VI, the first of which would read, “Recalling that the General Assembly has not decided on the concept of the responsibility to protect, its scope, implications or possible implementation methods”. The second paragraph would read, “Noting that the estimates in respect of thematic cluster I include narratives, functions, expected accomplishments, indicators of achievement and other information related to the Special Adviser to the Secretary-General on the Responsibility to
13-63373
7/10
A/C.5/68/SR.26
Protect”. The third paragraph would read, “Decides to delete all references to the activities and outputs related to the responsibility to protect, as contained in the proposed strategic framework and the related narratives of the Office of the Special Adviser to the Secretary-General on the Prevention of Genocide”. The fourth paragraph would read, “Requests the SecretaryGeneral to issue a corrigendum to his report A/68/327/Add.1”.
45. Ms. Connery (Ireland) said that her delegation did not support the proposed amendment, as its effects went beyond the purview of the Fifth Committee. Her delegation requested a recorded vote on the proposed amendment and invited other delegations to vote against it.
Statements made in explanation of position before the decision
46. Mr. Quinn (Canada) said that his delegation supported the request made by the representative of Ireland and encouraged other delegations to vote against the proposed amendment.
47. Mr. Jimenez (Nicaragua) said that his delegation supported the proposed amendment and was extremely concerned by the inclusion in the strategic framework of the Office of the Special Adviser on the Prevention of Genocide of narratives, functions, expected accomplishments, indicators of achievement and other information related to the Special Adviser to the Secretary-General on the Responsibility to Protect, a concept that did not enjoy intergovernmental consensus and was a serious breach of the administrative procedures that governed the allocation of organizational resources, which should only be used to implement internationally agreed mandates.
48. Although the 2005 World Summit Outcome and General Assembly resolution 63/308 reflected the need to continue consideration of the definition of the responsibility to protect, the proposed strategic framework for the Office of the Special Adviser on the Prevention of Genocide ignored that fact. Given that Member States had not reached agreement on the concept's definition, scope, execution or possible implementation, there was no legal basis for the Secretary-General to entrust the Special Adviser with developing and perfecting the concept of responsibility to protect.
49. Mr. Kalindra (Lithuania), speaking on behalf of the European Union, said that the Committee was mandated to consider administrative and budgetary questions; it should therefore focus on those issues and refrain from political discussions that should take place in other forums. The Committee's main concern was to ensure that the Office of the Special Adviser on the Prevention of Genocide had sufficient resources in order to implement effectively the mandate approved by the Security Council in its resolution 1366 (2001). The proposed amendment would hamper the Office's work, and for that reason should be rejected.
50. Mr. Bayat Mokhtari (Islamic Republic of Iran) said that he supported the proposal made by the representative of Cuba and that his delegation reserved the right to speak in explanation of vote at the plenary meeting of the General Assembly.
51. At the request of the representative of Ireland, a recorded vote was taken on the oral amendment proposed by the delegations of Cuba, the Plurinational State of Bolivia, Ecuador and the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela.
In favour:
Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Cuba, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Ecuador, Haiti, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Lao People's Democratic Republic, Namibia, Nicaragua,
Rwanda, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Venezuela
(Bolivarian Republic of), Zimbabwe.
Against:
Afghanistan, Albania, Andorra, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Barbados, Belgium, Benin, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria,
Canada, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia,
Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom of
8/10
13-63373
A/C.5/68/SR.26
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay.
Abstaining:
Algeria, Antigua and Barbuda, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Cameroon, China, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gambia, Guyana, Honduras, Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lebanon, Libya, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Morocco, Niger, Oman, Philippines, Qatar, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, South Africa, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Yemen, Zambia.
52. The oral amendment was rejected by 72 votes to 15, with 51 abstentions.
53. Mr. Jimenez (Nicaragua), speaking also on behalf of the Plurinational State of Bolivia, Ecuador and the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, requested a recorded vote on section VI of the draft resolution on estimates in respect of special political missions, good offices and other political initiatives authorized by the General Assembly and/or the Security Council for the same reasons already outlined by the representative of Cuba.
54. At the request of the representative of Nicaragua, a recorded vote was taken on section VI of draft resolution II.
In favour:
Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Benin, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Libya, Liechtenstein,
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Niger, Norway, Oman, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, United States of America, Uruguay, Viet Nam, Yemen.
Against:
Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Cuba, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Ecuador, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Nicaragua, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of).
Abstaining:
Haiti, United Arab Emirates, Zambia.
55. Section VI of draft resolution II was adopted by 130 votes to 8, with 3 abstentions.
56. Mr. Ayzouki (Syrian Arab Republic) said that, although his delegation had voted in favour of section VI of the draft resolution, it wished to express its reservations regarding the funding of the Special Envoy of the Secretary-General for the Implementation of Security Council resolution 1559 (2004) because the current mandate holder did not meet the standards set out in General Assembly resolution 63/261. He had also continued to overstep the mandate established in resolution 1559 (2004) by focusing on bilateral issues that concerned the Syrian Arab Republic and Lebanon, both of which were sovereign countries, while ignoring the fact that Israel had failed to fulfil its obligations under that same resolution.
57. His delegation also wished to express its reservations regarding section XII of the draft resolution, which related to revised estimates resulting from resolutions and decisions adopted by the Human Rights Council at its twenty-second, twenty-third and twenty-fourth sessions.
58. Draft resolution II was adopted.
13-63373
9/10
A/C.5/68/SR.26
Draft resolution III: Proposed programme budget for the biennium 2014-2015 (A/C.5/68/L.21)
59. The Chair drew attention to draft resolution III. Section A dealt with budget appropriations for the biennium 2014-2015, section B with income estimates for the biennium 2014-2015 and section C with the financing of appropriations for the year 2013.
60. Draft resolution III was adopted.
Draft resolution IV: Unforeseen and extraordinary expenses for the biennium 2014-2015 (A/C.5/68/L.22)
61. Draft resolution IV was adopted.
Draft resolution V: Working Capital Fund for the biennium 2014-2015 (A/C.5/68/L.23)
62. Draft resolution V was adopted.
63. The Chair invited the Committee to adopt the draft report contained in document A/C.5/68/L.24.
64. The draft report of the Fifth Committee, as orally amended, was adopted.
Agenda item 132: Review of the efficiency of the administrative and financial functioning of the United Nations (continued)
Questions deferred for future consideration (A/C.5/68/L.26)
Draft decision A/C.5/68/L.26: Questions deferred for future consideration
65. Draft decision A/C.5/68/L.26 was adopted.
Completion of the work of the Fifth Committee at the main part of the sixty-eighth session of the General Assembly
66. Mr. Navoti (Fiji), speaking on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, said that during the course of the session the Committee had engaged in intensive discussions of matters that touched upon the very fabric of the Organization. Most of its decisions had been reached in a spirit of compromise and had, inevitably, resulted in some posts being cut, a decision which affected the lives of the people who worked for the Organization. The Group had tried its best to protect the interests of those who would be affected by that decision and would continue to endeavour to do so. Recalling resolution 54/249, in which the General
Assembly had emphasized that the introduction of new technology should lead neither to the involuntary separation of staff nor necessarily to a reduction in staff, he called upon the Secretary-General to ensure that all affected employees were deployed to other vacant posts. Lastly, he noted that the timely availability of documentation could improve the Committee's work markedly and reiterated the Group's request that the Committee should receive documents early enough to allow it ample time to examine them.
67. Mr. Yamazaki (Japan) said that, while his delegation appreciated that all draft resolutions and decisions had been adopted by consensus, it was unfortunate that the Committee had been unable to show sufficient flexibility during the negotiations, which had been extremely protracted as a result. He expressed the hope that the experience would not be repeated in future; his delegation would look to the Chair for guidance and leadership and to the Secretariat for the prompt issuance of all relevant documents.
68. Turning to the approved budget for the biennium 2014-2015 of $5.530 billion, he noted that that figure, which was slightly below the revised amount for 20122013 and included amounts for recosting, had been attained as a result of a substantial reduction in posts. The reduction was noteworthy, as it was the first time in 16 years that such a step had been taken. His delegation firmly believed and expected that the independent study on recosting and options for the Organization to deal with fluctuations in exchange rates and inflation would yield meaningful results that the Committee could act upon in the near future.
69. It was necessary for the Member States to enable the Organization to prioritize its activities and determine the commensurate staffing in order to tackle emerging and urgent issues and discontinue obsolete activities that could be addressed in other ways. In that connection, his delegation welcomed the SecretaryGeneral's efforts to conduct a comprehensive review of staffing requirements, but considered that such an exercise should be an ongoing process and that those efforts should therefore be maintained.
70. The Chair declared that the Fifth Committee had completed its work at the main part of the sixty-eighth session of the General Assembly.
The meeting rose at 11.50 a.m.
10/10
13-63373