United Nations
A/C.5/72/SR.1
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
Official Records
Distr.: General 6 November 2017
Original: English
Fifth Committee
Summary record of the 1st meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Thursday, 5 October 2017, at 10 a.m.
Chair: Mr. Tommo Monthe (Cameroon)
Chair of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions: Mr. Ruiz Massieu
Contents
Organization of work
Agenda item 140: Scale of assessments for the apportionment of the expenses of the United Nations
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Management Section (dms@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
17-17564 (E)
i iiiiii in in niliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
A/C.5/72/SR.1
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Organization of work (A/C.5/72/1; A/C.5/72/L.1)
1. The Chair invited members to consider the proposed programme of work of the Committee for the main part of the session, contained in the informal paper that had been circulated to all delegations, and the note by the Secretariat on the status of preparedness of the relevant documentation (A/C.5/72/L.1). A separate list on the status of documentation would be issued for the first and second parts of the resumed session.
2. He drew attention to recommendations made by the General Committee in its first report (A/72/250) with regard to the rationalization of work. The Main Committee had been requested to further discuss their working methods at the beginning of every session and to brief the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Revitalization of the Work of the General Assembly on the results of their discussions.
3. The Committee should complete its work for the main part of the session by 8 December 2017. In view of financial constraints, meetings, including informal meetings, should start promptly at 10 a.m. and be adjourned by 6 p.m. In accordance with past practice, the requirement of a quorum for the start of a meeting should be waived. The General Committee had drawn attention to rules 99 (b), 106, 109, 114 and 115 of the rules of procedure regarding the conduct of meetings.
4. Efforts should be made to reduce the number of resolutions adopted, and resolutions should not contain requests for reports from the Secretary-General unless such reports were strictly necessary for the implementation of those resolutions or for the continued consideration of an item. Resolutions should be short and action-oriented. In addition, the Main Committees should merely take note of the reports of the Secretary-General or of subsidiary bodies that did not require a decision and should neither debate nor adopt resolutions on them unless specifically requested to do so.
5. Mr. Morejon Pazmino (Ecuador), speaking on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, said that the Group trusted that adequate time would be provided for the consideration of important agenda items. Despite noticeable improvement, the late issuance of reports remained a chronic problem for the Committee. Reports of the Secretariat and of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions should be submitted in a timely fashion in all languages, in accordance with the rules of procedure of the Assembly, so that the Committee's effectiveness
was not hindered. Reports on agenda items with financial and budgetary implications should be received as early as possible, and the Bureau should remind all stakeholders in the Organization of the importance of brevity, clarity and punctuality.
6. The Group looked forward to examining the second performance report of the programme budget for the biennium 2016-2017, the capital master plan, construction and property management, programme planning, human resources management, the United Nations common system and the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2018-2019. The General Assembly must approve resources commensurate with the full implementation of mandated programmes and activities. The Group would pay close attention to the reports on Umoja, the resident coordinator system, the strategic heritage plan, administration of justice at the United Nations, the scale of assessments for the apportionment of the expenses of the United Nations system, revised estimates and programme budget implications.
7. The Group was committed to concluding agenda items before the Committee within the time allotted, to ensure the effective functioning of the Organization. Negotiations should be conducted in an open, inclusive and transparent manner. Member States were collectively responsible for taking decisions that were in the best interest of the Organization and enabled it to implement its mandates effectively.
8. Mr. Teo (Singapore), speaking on behalf of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), said that the Secretariat must be given sufficient resources to fulfil mandates approved by the General Assembly. ASEAN would follow with interest the Committee's deliberations on the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2018-2019, construction and property management, special political missions and the Extraordinary Chambers in the Courts of Cambodia, and noted the importance of the Office of Internal Oversight Services. In human resources management, ASEAN had studied the Secretary-General's report on staff demographics. It welcomed his commitment to gender parity and balanced geographical representation in the Secretariat, especially at senior levels, and looked forward to full discussion by the Committee of his reform proposals. The Secretary-General should consult as widely as possible to ensure that the reform was transparent and inclusive. Given the Committee's heavy and complex workload, stakeholders should ensure that documents were issued in a timely fashion. The trend at recent sessions for the Committee to complete its work slightly earlier than the previous year should continue.
2/9
17-17564
A/C.5/72/SR.1
9. Mr. Martins (Angola), speaking on behalf of the Group of African States, said that the Secretariat and the Advisory Committee should ensure that Member States received reports well in advance so that they could make informed decisions. The draft programme of work included such important matters as the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2018-2019, the resident coordinator system, administration of justice at the United Nations, construction and property management, and the United Nations common system. The Group would also pay close attention to procedures, performance comparators and processes in mandate implementation. The matters before the Committee also included human resources management, special political missions, the African Union-United Nations Hybrid Operation in Darfur (UNAMID) and the United Nations Mission for Justice Support in Haiti (MINUJUSTH). The Committee must consider proposals on the financing of UNAMID and MINUJUSTH without delay, taking into account the challenges facing those missions. The Group would examine ways of increasing the membership of the Advisory Committee, whose workload had increased, to ensure fair participation for African countries and equitable geographical representation.
10. The Committee should conduct its work in an open, inclusive and transparent manner within the allotted time, and should refrain from negotiations in small groupings behind closed doors. The Group was committed to the established principles of the Organization, and was convinced that the Chair would ensure that they were respected. Regarding the scale of assessments, a speedy decision should be taken on requests submitted under Article 19 of the Charter so that the Member States concerned could fully participate in the Assembly session. Current negotiation mechanisms and the sovereign right of every Member State to express its views on administrative and budgetary matters should be respected.
11. Mr. Alliance (Haiti), speaking on behalf of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), said that the remaining reports on the matters before the Committee should be issued in good time to avoid adversely affecting the Committee's work. The Committee should take the time needed to ensure that agenda items were thoroughly considered and the work successfully concluded. CARICOM would pay particular attention to the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2018-2019; the Secretary-General's management reform proposals, including the restructuring of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR); the
pension system; the financing of MINUJUSTH; capital projects at the regional economic commissions; and the strategic heritage plan. Member States were collectively responsible for taking decisions that were in the interests of the Organization as a whole and allowed it to fulfil its mandates.
12. Mr. De Preter (Observer for the European Union), speaking also on behalf of the candidate countries Albania, Montenegro, Serbia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Turkey; the stabilization and association process country Bosnia and Herzegovina; and, in addition, Armenia, Georgia and the Republic of Moldova, said that the current session came at a critical juncture for the United Nations. The Committee's programme of work included the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2018-2019, the many additional reports with implications for that budget, and management reform. A collective effort was required to ensure that the reform resulted in an Organization more focused on delivery than on process. The Member States must conduct the negotiations as effectively and expeditiously as possible, focusing on those issues which required a decision by the Committee.
13. The Secretary-General had stated that the United Nations was crippled by bureaucracy and complex decision-making processes. The Committee, which had previously tended to micromanage and be averse to change, must now be strategic, open to change and respectful of the trust the Member States had placed in the Secretary-General. The Secretary-General's reform must improve the Committee's working methods. Simplification was needed, duplication must be avoided and processes must be streamlined. The Committee should require less meeting time and fewer documents, and should adopt fewer and shorter resolutions.
14. The timely, simultaneous issuance of required documentation in the official languages was essential to the inclusivity and transparency needed for successful negotiations. The Committee should reach decisions by consensus within normal working hours, with proper conference facilities; working outside those hours should be the exception, not the rule. The Committee had a key role to play in improving inclusivity, transparency and efficiency.
15. The Committee should better manage the time available at the second part of the resumed session, which had finished late year after year, forcing the Committee to work without conference services or interpretation. He trusted that, at the current session, the Committee would improve its time management
17-17564
3/9
A/C.5/72/SR.1
and the scheduling of agenda items, particularly in peacekeeping, throughout the year. The Bureau should give high priority to the organization of the second part of the resumed session and should, at an early stage, consider how to make best use of the Committee's time.
16. Mr. Sandoval Mendiolea (Mexico) said that the international community had welcomed the Secretary General's commitment to transforming the United Nations into an effective, modern organization, but continued to wait for major change. Mexico supported the Secretary-General's reform initiative because the world needed a strong United Nations to meet the challenges of sustainable development, peace and security, and human rights. The reforms were intended to improve the functioning of the Organization, make it more results-oriented and make decision-making more responsive to people's needs. The direction and pace of the reforms, as well as timely, clear communication with Member States, must be maintained.
17. Ambitious reform required the support of the whole United Nations system and the will of all Member States to rebuild trust among all stakeholders. The Committee had an essential role to play in transforming the Organization. The long-standing deficiencies in United Nations management could be addressed only through changes in the structure of the Secretariat and in the rules on financing, human resources and property management. The recruitment, deployment and development of qualified staff should be expedited so that they were more flexible and could respond effectively in emergencies. Coordination should be improved, and more attention should be paid to achieving results than to procedures and regulations. The planning and budgeting cycles should be reformed to reduce the number of documents considered by the Committee.
18. To rebuild trust between the Member States and the Secretariat, the Secretariat should provide more details regarding the implementation of the reforms, including time frames and expected results; the evaluation of those results and foreseeable organizational risks; and the ways in which greater delegation of authority and accountability would work in practice.
19. In discussing the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2018-2019, the Committee should give the Secretariat the resources it needed to perform its functions responsibly and increase transparency and accountability, with a focus on prevention, inclusivity and human rights. Mexico was committed to contributing financial and human resources to the
Organization; all Member States should meet their contributions in full. The permanent members of the Security Council had a particular responsibility for international peace and security, and the distortion resulting from the inclusion of the special political missions in the regular budget should be corrected. An adequate level of resources should be allocated to MINUJUSTH and the United Nations Verification Mission in Colombia, and Mexico would examine in detail the requirements for larger, more established peacekeeping operations with a view to saving resources to finance the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals.
20. Ms. Stener (Norway) said the Secretary-General had recently presented ambitious proposals to reform the United Nations, and the Committee would be essential in supporting change and enabling new ways of working. Change often hurt, but was necessary for a stronger, more flexible Organization. All regional groups and Member States should approach the challenges with an open mind, in a spirit of consensus. With regard to the Secretary-General's proposed reform of the budget process, a simplified, transparent budget proposal and a shorter cycle were essential in upholding the authority and budgetary oversight of the General Assembly.
21. Member States must ensure that adequate resources were available to fund the implementation of mandates, including those of the Human Rights Council. The Organization was also responsible for securing sufficient funding for the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East. The search for consensus was a core value of the Committee, even when Member States' initial views diverged widely, but an impasse had been reached in certain areas. Committee members should make every effort at the current session to come to an agreement on the decentralization of OHCHR to better assist the Member States and regions. The United Nations must finance its share of the resident coordinator system as a matter of principle. Her delegation looked forward to discussing the budget proposals for MINUJUSTH and the United Nations Verification Mission in Colombia, with the aim of helping the countries concerned to sustain hard-won peace and prosperity.
22. Mr. Fu Daopeng (China) said that the current session was significant because of the discussions on the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2018-2019 and the Secretary-General's proposed reforms. Financial resources were essential to the functioning of the United Nations, and the programme budget for the biennium 2018-2019 should be set at a
4/9
17-17564
A/C.5/72/SR.1
level that allowed the Organization to carry out its mandates. There was a need for strict financial discipline and improved resource utilization. All parties should work in a spirit of democratic consultation to formulate a reasonable budget. China supported the Secretary General's management reform effort, which should be driven by the Member States, improve efficiency and enhance the Organization's role in world peace, common development and international cooperation. His delegation, which was carefully studying the Secretary-General's reform proposals, looked forward to improving cooperation and conducting in-depth discussions to advance the reform. Given the Committee's heavy agenda and continued delays in document availability, the Secretariat should circulate documents in a timely manner, and all stakeholders should cooperate to improve efficiency and complete the Committee's work within the allotted time.
23. Ms. Norman Chalet (United States of America) said that, in September 2017, the Permanent Mission of the United States and the Heads of Delegation of 12 other Member States had hosted a high-level event on United Nations reform, with the Secretary-General as guest speaker, and 131 delegations had signed a political declaration that endorsed the SecretaryGeneral's reform initiative and represented a firm commitment to strengthening trust and partnership among Member States and between Member States and the Secretariat. The Secretary-General had proposed an overall vision for the reform and for the transformation and strengthening of mandate implementation processes. Her delegation supported the Secretary General's efforts to ensure that the reform supported peace and security, human rights and development, the pillars of the United Nations.
24. Her delegation would closely scrutinize the regular budget for the biennium 2018-2019 and funding requests for the renovation of the United Nations Office at Geneva, construction projects in Addis Ababa, Bangkok, Nairobi and Santiago, and other ongoing initiatives. It looked forward to considering the recommendations of the International Civil Service Commission and efforts to rationalize staff costs. The session also provided opportunities to ensure that the Organization held every level of management accountable, protected whistle-blowers and focused on results rather than processes. Although the Committee had a heavy workload, the broader vision of a more effective United Nations should be at the forefront of its deliberations. It should avoid a “business as usual” approach and change ineffective practices.
25. Ms. Harqus (United Arab Emirates) said that her Government had announced its commitment to United Nations reform by signing the September 2017 political declaration, in which over 120 countries had expressed their confidence in the Secretary-General's ability to make the United Nations more powerful and more responsive to the needs of the international community. Her delegation welcomed the comprehensive approach taken in discussions of the Secretary-General's report on shifting the management paradigm in the United Nations (A/72/492). That approach should be pursued to achieve lasting results. She looked forward to full implementation of such administrative and financial tools as Umoja and the International Public Sector Accounting Standards, which should be developed through the initiatives announced in the report, and to the other reports that the Secretary-General intended to submit on those matters.
26. Organizations functioned better if they achieved gender balance in leadership positions, and the United Arab Emirates was working with such bodies as the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN-Women) to address women's issues. Her delegation was active in the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Revitalization of the Work of the General Assembly, which should be guided in its deliberations by the principles of gender equality and equitable geographical distribution of senior posts. She looked forward to the Committee's discussion of the United Nations resident coordinator system. The Organization should improve current practice by affirming the principles of transparency, accountability and respect for the sovereignty of the countries in which it had a coordinator, and should keep pace with the system's development.
27. Ms. Tripathi (India) noted that many of the documents related to the matters before the Committee had already been issued, and trusted that sufficient time would be allocated for thorough consideration of those matters. The systemic issue of late distribution of documentation, which had hampered the Committee's work for some time, should be addressed. Her delegation welcomed the Secretary-General's reform efforts, in particular the establishment of the Office of Counter-Terrorism, which should be allocated adequate resources in the programme budget for the biennium 2018-2019. The Organization must be more responsive to evolving situations in the field. Field managers must therefore have delegated authority to change organizational designs to strengthen accountability. Her delegation looked forward to receiving further details on the matter.
17-17564
5/9
A/C.5/72/SR.1
28. Efforts to ensure the rational utilization of resources should not undermine the implementation of United Nations mandates. Her delegation gave high priority to the deliberations on the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2018-2019. All Member States' priorities must be reflected in the regular budget; the allocation of resources must strike a balance between development, human rights and peace and security, and must be adequate to support the implementation by Member States of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Delegations must engage constructively in a spirit of partnership to implement the Agenda and meet other challenges; the Secretariat must have the financial and human resources to fulfil its mandate.
29. Mr. Skinner-Klee (Guatemala) said that the Committee was responsible for approving the budget and establishing the scale of assessments, one of the General Assembly's most complex tasks. The programme of work included the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2018-2019, Umoja, administration of justice at the United Nations, the strategic heritage plan and the resident coordinator system. While the facilitators did much to reconcile divergent views on agenda items, the political will of Member States was essential to reaching the agreements that would allow the Organization to implement mandates in development, human rights and peace and security. The Secretariat should provide documentation in a timely manner to avoid delays in the Committee's work.
30. Mr. Hoshino (Japan) said that, bearing in mind that the assessed budget was funded by the taxpayers of Member States, his delegation would evaluate the appropriateness and affordability of all requests for additional resources under the current budget and the proposed programme budget for 2018-2019. His Government attached great importance to more efficient management of the Secretariat, particularly with a view to transparency and accountability, and supported the Secretary-General's reform initiative. His delegation would carefully analyse reports submitted to the Committee, but emphasized that budgetary discipline should also apply to discussions of that initiative. It would negotiate the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2018-2019 on the basis of relevant resolutions and current rules and regulations.
31. Mr. Khalizov (Russian Federation) said that the Committee had before it the second performance report of the programme budget for the biennium 2016-2017 and the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2018-2019. A pragmatic approach should be taken to
the financing of United Nations activities to balance the search for savings with the implementation of programme activities, and Member States should ensure that the Secretariat spent the budget more effectively, responsibly and transparently. Proposals for additional appropriations should be carefully justified, including in terms of budgetary discipline, and budget cuts must not be arbitrary or adversely affect mandate implementation.
32. His delegation attached great importance to management reform. New initiatives should be implemented in accordance with current mandates, taking into account Member States' positions. Accountability and transparency in the Secretariat must be improved, and flexibility must be ensured in the development of reform proposals that took into account the specific characteristics of field activities. Strategic efforts should be made to define common goals and parameters and coordinate reforms. Reform proposals should include clear performance indicators and detailed benefit realization plans. Expenditure increases for Member States were unacceptable given current efforts to make optimum use of United Nations budget resources; any changes made must be strictly in line with the mandates to be approved by the General Assembly.
33. Such large infrastructure investments as the strategic heritage plan, renovation and construction work in Nairobi, the regional commissions in Bangkok and Santiago, and proposals for the strategic review of capital assets accounted for a significant part of the work of the Committee. The final cost of some of those projects was linked to reform initiatives, particularly Umoja, the information and communications technology strategy, the flexible workplace and the global service delivery model, that could significantly affect the Organization's office space requirements. Those questions should be considered in conjunction with one another to maximize cost-effectiveness.
34. The Chair said that he took it that the Committee wished to approve the proposed programme of work on the understanding that the Bureau would take into account the views expressed and make any necessary adjustments.
35. It was so decided.
Agenda item 140: Scale of assessments for the apportionment of the expenses of the United Nations
(A/72/11 and A/72/71)
36. Mr. Greiver (Chair of the Committee on Contributions), introducing the report of the Committee on Contributions on its seventy-seventh
6/9
17-17564
A/C.5/72/SR.1
session (A/72/11), said that the report contained the results of the review, conducted by the Committee pursuant to General Assembly resolution 70/245, of elements of the methodology for the scale of assessments in order to reflect capacity to pay.
37. On the basis of its review of the income measure, which constituted a first approximation of capacity to pay, the Committee on Contributions had reaffirmed its recommendation that the scale of assessments should be based on the most current, comprehensive and comparable data available for gross national income (GNI). It had expressed support for efforts by the Statistics Division to enable Member States to submit national accounts data on a timely basis with the required scope, detail and quality. It had also recommended that the General Assembly should encourage Member States to submit the required national accounts questionnaires under the 1993 or 2008 System of National Accounts (SNA) on a timely basis.
38. Conversion rates were required in order to be able to express in a common monetary unit GNI data reported in national currencies. The Committee on Contributions had reaffirmed its recommendation that conversion rates based on market exchange rates (MERs) should be used, except where doing so would cause excessive fluctuations and distortions in the gross national income of some Member States expressed in United States dollars. GNI data must be averaged over a designated base period; once a base period had been chosen, there were advantages in using the same base period for as long as possible.
39. The Committee on Contributions had noted that the unavailability of data was no longer a factor in determining whether to base the debt-burden adjustment, an element of the methodology since 1986, on total external debt or public external debt, and whether the debt-stock approach or the debt-flow approach should be used. Data were now available on public external debt and on the actual repayment period. The Committee had decided to consider further the question of the debt-burden adjustment in the light of guidance from the General Assembly.
40. While the Committee on Contributions had agreed that the low per capita income adjustment, part of the methodology since the first scale, continued to be an essential element in the scale methodology, it had considered various alternatives. One such alternative involved establishing the threshold on the basis of the world average per capita debt-adjusted GNI. Another possible alternative was an inflation-adjusted threshold. The Committee had decided to consider the
low per capita income adjustment further in the light of guidance from the General Assembly.
41. The current methodology included a maximum assessment rate, or ceiling, of 22 per cent, a maximum assessment rate, or ceiling, for the least developed countries of 0.010 per cent, and a minimum assessment rate, or floor, of 0.001 per cent. The Committee on Contributions had decided to consider those elements further in the light of guidance from the General Assembly. In connection with other suggestions and other possible elements for the scale methodology, it would also study further the questions of large scale to-scale changes in rates of assessment, discontinuity and annual recalculation in the light of guidance from the Assembly.
42. The report contained a review of the latest report of the Secretary-General on multi-year payment plans (A/72/71) and updated information on the status of implementation of the remaining payment plan as at 23 June 2017. The Committee on Contributions had reiterated its recommendation that the Assembly should encourage those Member States in arrears to consider submitting multi-year payment plans.
43. The Committee on Contributions had considered four requests for exemption under Article 19, and had encouraged the Member States concerned to address the growth in arrears by making annual payments exceeding current assessments in order to avoid further accumulation of debt. The Committee had concluded that the failure of the remaining four Member States - the Comoros, Guinea-Bissau, Sao Tome and Principe, and Somalia - to pay the minimum amount necessary to avoid the application of Article 19 was due to conditions beyond their control and recommended that they should be permitted to vote until the end of the seventy-second session of the General Assembly.
44. Mr. Berridge (Chief, Contributions and Policy Coordination Service), introducing the report of the Secretary-General on multi-year payment plans (A/72/71), said that six Member States had successfully implemented multi-year payment plans since the adoption of that system, which gave due consideration to the economic situation of Member States and was voluntary in nature.
45. The report set out the status of implementation of the sole remaining plan, submitted by Sao Tome and Principe, as at 31 December 2016. No new payment plans had been submitted in recent years, but several Member States had indicated that they were considering the matter. The Secretariat stood ready to assist Member States wishing to implement such plans.
17-17564
7/9
A/C.5/72/SR.1
46. Ms. Pereira Sotomayor (Ecuador), speaking on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, said that Member States should pay their assessed contributions in full, on time and without conditions, in fulfilment of their legal obligations under the Charter, to ensure that the Organization had adequate financial resources to discharge its mandates. Consideration should nevertheless be given to the special circumstances that temporarily prevented some developing countries from meeting their financial obligations, and the Group commended those Member States that had made every effort to fulfil those obligations despite the difficulties they faced. In that regard, the Group endorsed the recommendation of the Committee on Contributions concerning the four Member States with pending requests under Article 19 and emphasized the need to consider those requests in a timely manner.
47. She welcomed the efforts of Member States that had met their commitments under multi -year payment plans. Such plans should remain voluntary and should not be used as a means of exerting pressure on Member States that were already in difficult circumstances. Likewise, they should not be a factor in considering requests for exemption under Article 19 of the Charter.
48. The current methodology for the preparation of the scale of assessments reflected changes in the relative economic situations of Member States. The Group reaffirmed capacity to pay as the fundamental criterion in the apportionment of the expenses of the United Nations and rejected any changes in the elements of the current methodology aimed at increasing the contributions of developing countries. Core elements such as the base period, gross national income, conversion rates, low per capita income adjustment, the gradient, the floor, the least developed countries ceiling and the debt-stock adjustment were not negotiable. The Assembly should, however, review the overall ceiling, which had been fixed as a political compromise and was in consequence at odds with the principle of capacity to pay and a fundamental distortion of the scale of assessments.
49. Organizations with an enhanced observer status at the United Nations that enjoyed rights and privileges usually granted only to observer States should have the same financial obligations as such States. The Assembly should consider establishing an assessment for such organizations.
50. Mr. De Preter (Observer for the European Union), speaking also on behalf of the candidate countries Albania, Montenegro, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Turkey; the stabilization and association process country Bosnia and
Herzegovina; and, in addition, Armenia, Georgia and the Republic of Moldova, said that the comprehensive review of the scale methodology had provided valuable recommendations for the enhancement of that methodology. Funding the Organization so as to ensure its sustainability and effective functioning was the joint responsibility of all Member States. Further efforts must be made to ensure that the methodology reflected an equitable distribution of the financial responsibilities among Member States according to their capacity to pay.
51. With regard to the requests for exemptions under Article 19 of the Charter, he reiterated that the payment of assessed contributions in full, on time and without conditions was a fundamental duty of all Member States. Nevertheless, some States might face genuine temporary difficulties in discharging that duty for reasons beyond their control. Multi -year payment plans were effective tools that helped Member States to reduce their unpaid assessed contributions. He therefore endorsed the recommendations of the Committee on Contributions regarding exemptions under Article 19.
52. Bearing in mind the Committee's heavy workload and the need to enhance its working methods and accelerate its procedures, he called for the speedy conclusion of negotiations on the current agenda item. In that regard, the Committee should not discuss proposals that deviated from Article 17 of the Charter and the principle of the capacity to pay.
53. Mr. Imada (Japan) said that, as one of the major financial contributors to the United Nations, Japan attached great importance to the scale of assessments. His Government had faithfully paid its dues, despite its domestic economic and financial difficulties.
54. Taking into account the evolving global economic situation, a consensus must be reached on a methodology that equitably reflected each Member State's capacity to pay, based on current, comprehensive and comparable data, with a view to ensuring the sustainability of the Organization.
55. His delegation endorsed the recommendations of the Committee on Contributions regarding exemptions under Article 19 of the Charter and encouraged those Member States in arrears to consider submitting multiyear payment plans.
56. Mr. Hamasi (Libya), drawing the Committee's attention to paragraph 120 of the report of the Committee on Contributions (A/72/11), said that, as at 7 August 2017, Libya had paid the minimum amount necessary to avoid the application of Article 19.
8/9
17-17564
A/C.5/72/SR.1
57. Mr. Greiver (Chair of the Committee on Contributions) took note of the comment made by the representative of Libya and underscored that the report of the Committee on Contributions reflected only the information available as at end-June 2017.
The meeting rose at 12.25 p.m.
17-17564
9/9