United Nations
A/C.5/69/SR.43
General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
Official Records
Distr.: General 24 June 2015
Original: English
Fifth Committee
Summary record of the 43rd meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Monday, 15 June 2015, at 4 p.m.
Chair: Mr. Ruzicka (Slovakia)
Chair of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions: Mr. Ruiz Massieu
Contents
Agenda item 5: Election of the officers of the Main Committees
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Control Unit (srcorrections@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
15-09807 (E)
III III II111HH1
A/C.5/69/SR.43
The meeting was called to order at 5.50 p.m.
Agenda item 5: Election of the officers of the Main Committees
1. The Chair said that, in accordance with rule 99 (a) of the rules of procedure, the meeting had been convened for the purpose of electing the Chair and other members of the Bureau for the seventieth session of the General Assembly.
2. The nomination of Mr. Bhattarai (Nepal) for the office of Chair had been endorsed by the Group of Asia-Pacific States. In the absence of further nominations, and in accordance with rule 103 of the rules of procedure, he would take it that the Committee wished to elect Mr. Bhattarai (Nepal) Chair.
3. Mr. Bhattarai (Nepal) was elected Chair by acclamation.
4. The Chair said that the nominations of Mr. Bong (Chad), Mr. Castaneda-Solares (Guatemala) and Mr. Goren (Israel) for the three offices of Vice-Chair had been endorsed by the Group of African States, the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States, and the Group of Western European and Other States, respectively.
5. As consultations were still being conducted by the Group of Eastern European States on a nomination for the post of Rapporteur, he proposed that that election should be postponed.
6. Mr. Al-Mouallimi (Saudi Arabia) said that his delegation respected the right of regional groups to nominate candidates as they saw fit. However, that right should be exercised responsibly, not to make provocative nominations. Nomination of Israel to a leadership position in the Committee was such a nomination. Israel was in continuous breach of numerous General Assembly and Security Council resolutions. It was incomprehensible for an Israeli official to have a leading position in the committee in charge of the finances of the United Nations.
7. Out of respect for the right of regional groups to nominate candidates as they thought appropriate, his delegation would not request a vote. However, his delegation did not concur with the nomination, which, if endorsed by the Assembly, would not enjoy unanimous support.
8. Mr. Roet (Israel) said that the events transpiring could best be described as chutzpah. The problem faced by Saudi Arabia was not what Israel did, but, rather, what Israel was, and that Israel existed.
9. The Chair recalled that the purpose of the meeting was to elect the officers of the Committee, and requested delegations to focus on the matter in hand.
10. Mr. Ayzouki (Syrian Arab Republic) said that his delegation objected to the nomination of Israel, whose candidate did not enjoy unanimous consensus support, and could not, therefore, be elected by acclamation. His delegation regretted the recent emergence of the practice of making provocative nominations.
11. Mr. Dibaei (Islamic Republic of Iran) said that his delegation attached great importance to the work of the Main Committees of the Assembly, including the Fifth Committee, with its responsibility for administrative and budgetary matters.
12. The bureaux of the Main Committees played an important role, their members must have credibility, and their composition should correspond to the mandate of the committee concerned. Regrettably, election of a candidate from the Israeli regime to the Bureau of the Fifth Committee would not serve that purpose. The Israeli regime, which had a dark record, spanning decades, of wanton violation of the norms and principles of international law, and which had been condemned by the Organization for its criminal policies and practices and had consistently and brazenly disregarded the decisions of the General Assembly, should not be rewarded by a position to oversee the work of a committee mandated to approve the budget of the Organization.
13. His delegation again condemned the illegal policies and practices of the occupying regime of Israel. Holding positions within the United Nations system added no legitimacy to that law-breaking and aggressive regime.
14. The Chair said that, bearing in mind the views expressed in the Committee, in particular regarding respect for geographical rotation, and the nominations by regional groups, he took it that the Committee wished to elect the proposed candidates.
15. Mr. Bong (Chad), Mr. Castaneda-Solares (Guatemala) and Mr. Goren (Israel) were elected Vice Chairs.
2/3
15-09807
A/C.5/69/SR.43
16. The Chair expressed the hope that at the seventieth session delegations would continue to work together in a spirit of compromise. The challenging items due to come before the Committee - whose complexity reflected the fragility of political, economic and social developments around the world - required the cooperation of all stakeholders: Member States, regional groups, the Secretariat and the Advisory Committee.
17. Demographic trends, climate change, exploitation of natural resources and mobility necessitated much closer cooperation, shared responsibilities and more effective use of human and natural resources. Wisdom stemmed not from recollection of the past, but from responsibility for the future. While the Committee had no panacea, and could not even resolve some of its own problems, it was an important part of the system defining the role of the United Nations.
18. The second part of the resumed session had not yet concluded, but that was because the Committee had tried to achieve more by addressing the core functions of the Organization. It had worked hard to establish the financial framework for peacekeeping missions, to be more transparent and effective, more trusted, to address the issues facing peacekeepers. To achieve those goals the dedication and goodwill were required of every single Member State, of every single member of the Secretariat, and of every single institution of the United Nations. In the words of a proverb, to go quickly, go alone, to go far, go together.
19. Mr. Bhattarai (Nepal), noting the enormity and sensitivity of the work of the Committee at the seventieth session, looked forward to the cooperation and support of the membership in the successful completion of its work.
The meeting rose at 6.10 p.m.
15-09807
3/3