United Nations
A/C.5/67/SR.35/Add.1
General Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
Official Records
Distr.: General 12 July 2013
Original: English
Fifth Committee
Summary record of the second part* of the 35th meeting
Reconvened at Headquarters, New York, on Friday, 28 June 2013, at 3 p.m.
Chair: Mr. Berger (Germany)
Chairman of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions: Mr. Ruiz Massieu
Contents
Agenda item 146: Administrative and budgetary aspects of the financing of the United Nations peacekeeping operations (continued)
Agenda item 129: Review of the efficiency of the administrative and financial functioning of the United Nations (continued)
Questions deferred for future consideration
Completion of the work of the Fifth Committee at the second part of the resumed sixty-seventh session of the General Assembly
* The summary record of the first part of the meeting, held on Thursday, 27 June 2013, appears as document A/C.5/67/SR.35.
This record is subject to correction. Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Control Unit (srcorrections@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
13-37803 (E)
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiu
A/C.5/67/SR.35/Add. 1
The meeting was called to order at 3.25 p.m.
Agenda item 146: Administrative and budgetary aspects of the financing of the United Nations peacekeeping operations (continued) (A/C.5/67/18; A/C.5/67/L.53)
Draft resolution A/C.5/67/L.53: Support account for peacekeeping operations
1. Mr. Hussain (Bangladesh) said that it was his delegation's understanding that the reference to the abolishment of one Political Affairs Officer post shown in annex 1, part B, of the draft resolution was incorrect, as it had been agreed to retain that post.
2. Mr. Chumakov (Russian Federation) said that he took it that the supplementary information provided to the Committee during its consideration of the item in informal consultations would be part of its official decision on the Secretary-General's proposals.
3. Mr. Lieberman (United States of America) said that, in the second line of paragraph 22, the word “the” should be inserted before “Government” and the phrase “modalities are” should be amended to “modality is”.
4. Mr. Curry (Director, Peacekeeping Financing Division), responding to the points raised by delegations, said that the draft resolution would be amended to show that the Political Affairs Officer post in annex 1 would be retained. He confirmed that the supplementary information concerning the SecretaryGeneral's proposals was adjoined to the draft resolution.
5. Draft resolution A/C.5/67/L.53, as orally amended, was adopted.
6. Ms. Haq (Under-Secretary-General for Field Support) said that, in implementing paragraph 17 of the draft resolution, the Secretariat would be guided first and foremost by the provisions of Article 101.1 of the Charter, to ensure that staff selection for the Department of Peacekeeping Operations and the Department of Field Support took place through a competitive process, the paramount consideration being to secure the highest standards of efficiency, competence and integrity. It would also seek to ensure the equal participation of men and women in the work of the Departments and pay due regard to the importance of recruiting staff on as wide a geographical basis as possible. Moreover, the Secretariat would seek to ensure that troop-
contributing countries were properly represented among the staff of the Departments, bearing in mind their levels of contribution, which would be an additional element in the selection process. The Secretariat would report on those matters to the General Assembly in the context of its consideration of the support account for peacekeeping operations for the period from July 2014 to June 2015.
7. The Chair drew attention to the note by the Secretary-General on the financing of the support account for peacekeeping operations and the United Nations Logistics Base at Brindisi, Italy (A/C.5/67/18), which, in accordance with the prorating procedures approved by the General Assembly in its resolution 50/221 B, indicated the amounts to be apportioned in respect of each peacekeeping mission, including the prorated shares of the support account and of the United Nations Logistics Base. He took it that the Committee wished to take note of the information contained in the note by the Secretary-General.
8. It was so decided.
Agenda item 129: Review of the efficiency of the administrative and financial functioning of the United Nations (continued) (A/C.5/67/L.56)
Draft decision A/C.5/67/L.56: Questions deferred for future consideration
9. Draft decision A/C.5/67/L.56 was adopted.
Completion of the work of the Fifth Committee at the second part of the resumed sixty-seventh session of the General Assembly
10. The Chair, noting that the Committee had been unable to discuss its working methods owing to the heavy meeting schedule during the current session, said that it would be advisable for such a discussion to take place during the sixty-eighth session of the General Assembly.
11. Mr. Chapdelaine (Canada), speaking also on behalf of Australia and New Zealand, said that it would be important for the Committee to reform its working methods so as to avoid in future approving budgets on the eve of the fiscal year end.
12. Mr. Coffi (Cote d'Ivoire), speaking on behalf of the Group of African States, said he agreed that the Committee should examine its working methods. The Group welcomed the transparency that had been
2
13-37803
A/C.5/67/SR.35/Add. 1
achieved through the participation of the Bureau members - and thereby the Member States they represented - in the decision-making process.
13. Mr. Dadu (Nigeria) said that certain trends that had arisen in the work of the Committee, including the tendency to hold meetings at night and to make progress in negotiations conditional on the presence of certain representatives, caused delays in the decisionmaking process that in turn jeopardized the timely implementation of the Organization's mandates. Such trends must be eliminated so that the Committee's work could proceed smoothly.
14. Mr. Soomro (Pakistan) said that the enhancement of the Committee's working methods would enable it to achieve balanced outcomes that addressed the concerns of all stakeholders. The increased transparency evident in the negotiations was a welcome improvement that fostered goodwill. It was regrettable that the issue of civilian capacity had been deferred once again; he expressed the hope that the matter would be taken up at the sixty-eighth session.
15. Mr. Lieberman (United States of America) said that the Committee had provided the Secretariat with the resources, tools and guidance it required to chart the correct course for peacekeeping, one of the Organization's key activities. He expressed the hope that the trust and mutual respect demonstrated by the Committee members in their deliberations at the current session would continue in future.
16. Mr. Chumakov (Russian Federation) said that, while the Committee members were well aware of the criticality of logistical issues in peacekeeping, it had become increasingly difficult to reach consensus on such issues. Regrettably, the Committee had not taken up the issue of civilian capacity; it was to be hoped that a constructive discussion of the matter would take place at the sixty-eighth session.
17. Mr. Puri (India) said that his delegation welcomed the progress made in ensuring representation, inclusivity and transparency for troopcontributing countries in United Nations peacekeeping. He also expressed gratitude for the proposed refurbishment of the United Nations Peacekeepers Memorial.
18. Mr. Hussain (Bangladesh) said that the Committee's protracted deliberations could be concluded in a timelier manner in future if the elements
required for decision-making were introduced earlier in the process. The representation of troop-contributing countries in the Secretariat, as outlined by the UnderSecretary-General for Field Support in her statement following the adoption of draft resolution A/C.5/67/L.53, would undoubtedly contribute to the implementation of General Assembly decisions and mandates. Further work would be required on the United Nations Peacekeepers Memorial to make it a fitting memorial for those who had sacrificed their lives for peace and security.
19. Ms. Haq (Under-Secretary-General for Field Support) said that it would be worthwhile to reflect on the important contribution of the Fifth Committee to the maintenance of international peace and security. While early estimates had indicated that the peacekeeping budget would not rise significantly in the 2013/14 period, the global security environment had since changed dramatically. The resulting establishment of the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali and the deployment of an intervention brigade to the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo had changed those projections.
20. After an exchange of courtesies, in which Mr. Navoti (Fiji), speaking on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, Mr. Chapdelaine (Canada), speaking also on behalf of Australia and New Zealand, Ms. Power (Observer for the European Union), Mr. Coffi (Cote d'Ivoire), speaking on behalf of the Group of African States, Mr. Marzooq (Bahrain), speaking on behalf of the Gulf Cooperation Council, Mr. Dadu (Nigeria), Mr. Soomro (Pakistan), Mr. Lieberman (United States of America), Mr. Chumakov (Russian Federation), Mr. Puri (India), Mr. Aiki (Japan), Mr. Benmoussa (Morocco), Mr. Dettling (Switzerland) and Mr. Hussain (Bangladesh) took part, the Chair declared that the Fifth Committee had completed its work at the second part of the resumed sixty-seventh session of the General Assembly.
The meeting rose at 4.20 p.m.
13-37803
3