United Nations
A/c .5/69/SR.44
General Assembly
Sixty-ninth session
Official Records
Distr.: General 9 July 2015
Original: English
Fifth Committee
Summary record of the 44th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Wednesday, 24 June 2015, at 3 p.m.
Chair: Mr. Ruzicka (Slovakia)
Chair of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions: Mr. Ruiz Massieu
Contents
Agenda item 5: Election of the officers of the Main Committees (continued) Statement by the Chef de Cabinet
Agenda item 130: Financial reports and audited financial statements, and reports of the Board of Auditors (continued)
Agenda item 149: Financing of the United Nations Interim Security Force for Abyei (continued)
Agenda item 150: Financing of the United Nations Mission in the Central African Republic and Chad (continued)
Agenda item 151: Financing of the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic (continued)
Agenda item 152: Financing of the United Nations Operation in Cote d'Ivoire (continued)
Agenda item 153: Financing of the United Nations Peacekeeping Force in Cyprus (continued)
Agenda item 154: Financing of the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (continued)
Agenda item 156: Financing of the United Nations Integrated Mission in TimorLeste (continued)
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Control Unit (srcorrections@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
15-10367 (E)
in ii ii in wmmwv
A/C.5/69/SR.44
Agenda item 157: Financing of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti (continued)
Agenda item 158: Financing of the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (continued)
Agenda item 159: Financing of the United Nations Mission in Liberia (continued)
Agenda item 160: Financing of the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali (continued)
Agenda item 161: Financing of the United Nations peacekeeping forces in the Middle East (continued)
(a) United Nations Disengagement Observer Force (continued)
(b) United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (continued)
Agenda item 162: Financing of the United Nations Mission in South Sudan (continued)
Agenda item 163: Financing of the United Nations Mission in the Sudan (continued)
Agenda item 164: Financing of the United Nations Supervision Mission in the Syrian Arab Republic (continued)
Agenda item 165: Financing of the United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara (continued)
Agenda item 166: Financing of the African Union-United Nations Hybrid Operation in Darfur (continued)
Agenda item 167: Financing of the activities arising from Security Council resolution 1863 (2009) (continued)
Agenda item 148: Administrative and budgetary aspects of the financing of the United Nations peacekeeping operations (continued)
Cross-cutting issues (continued)
Support account for peacekeeping operations (continued)
United Nations Logistics Base (continued)
Agenda item 132: Programme budget for the biennium 2014-2015 (continued)
Special subjects relating to the programme budget for the biennium 2014 -2015
Agenda item 131: Review of the efficiency of the administrative and financial functioning of the United Nations (continued)
Questions deferred for future consideration
Completion of the work of the Fifth Committee at the second part of the resumed sixty-ninth session of the General Assembly
2/11
15-10367
A/C.5/69/SR.44
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda item 5: Election of the officers of the Main Committees (continued)
1. The Chair recalled that at its 43rd meeting the Committee, in accordance with rule 103 of the rules of procedure, had elected its Chair and Vice-Chairs for the seventieth session. Also in accordance with rule 103, the Group of Eastern European States had now nominated and endorsed Mr. Auvaart (Estonia) for the post of Rapporteur.
2. Mr. Auvaart (Estonia) was elected Rapporteur by acclamation.
Statement by the Chef de Cabinet
3. Ms. Malcorra (Chef de Cabinet) noted that the overall level of resources for peacekeeping, including the United Nations Logistics Base and the support account, exceeded $8 billion - clear testimony of the commitment of Member States to peacekeeping operations and their tireless efforts to approve the resources needed for the delivery of peacekeeping mandates and associated backstopping costs.
4. She acknowledged the adoption of a cross-cutting draft resolution. The budgets now before the Committee embodied the Secretariat's efforts to meet the expectations of Member States through better planning and implementation of the global field support strategy - borne out by the relatively minor reductions in the resource levels proposed by the Secretary-General. As the global field support strategy, as a project, came to an end, the Secretariat looked forward to the Committee's views on the implementation plan, which would inform the mainstreaming of the strategy.
5. She acknowledged the support by Member States throughout the implementation period, the decision to give the Regional Service Centre a separate budget, and support for the supply chain management initiative. The views of Member States on zero tolerance of sexual abuse and exploitation would also be fully taken into account in development of policy in that area. The Secretariat would continue its hard work to make peacekeeping - the flagship activity of the Organization - even more successful.
6. The Chair noted that some of the draft resolutions and decisions to be introduced had been
finalized only hours earlier, and were thus provisional and available in English only. With full regard for the resolutions of the General Assembly on multilingualism, he acknowledged the Committee's flexibility in proceeding on that basis so as to conclude its work at the second part of the resumed session.
Agenda item 130: Financial reports and audited financial statements, and reports of the Board of Auditors (continued) (A/C.5/69/L.43)
Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.43: Financial reports and audited financial statements, and reports of the Board of Auditors
7. Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.43 was adopted.
Agenda item 149: Financing of the United Nations Interim Security Force for Abyei (continued) (A/C.5/69/L.46)
Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.46: Financing of the United Nations Interim Security Force for Abyei
8. Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.46 was adopted.
Agenda item 150: Financing of the United Nations Mission in the Central African Republic and Chad
(continued) (A/C.5/69/L.39)
Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.39: Financing of the United Nations Mission in the Central African Republic and Chad
9. Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.39 was adopted.
Agenda item 151: Financing of the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic (continued) (A/C.5/69/L.47)
Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.47: Financing of the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic
10. Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.47 was adopted.
Agenda item 152: Financing of the United Nations Operation in Cote d'Ivoire (continued)
(A/C.5/69/L.48)
Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.48: Financing of the United Nations Operation in Cote d 'Ivoire
11. Draft resolution A/C. 5/69/L. 48 was adopted.
15-10367
3/11
A/C.5/69/SR.44
Agenda item 153: Financing of the United Nations Peacekeeping Force in Cyprus (continued) (A/C.5/69/L.49)
Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.49: Financing of the United Nations Peacekeeping Force in Cyprus
12. Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.49 was adopted.
Agenda item 154: Financing of the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (continued) (A/C.5/69/L.50)
Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.50: Financing of the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo
13. Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.50 was adopted.
Agenda item 156: Financing of the United Nations Integrated Mission in Timor-Leste (continued) (A/C.5/69/L.40)
Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.40: Financing of the United Nations Integrated Mission in Timor-Leste
14. Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.40 was adopted.
Agenda item 157: Financing of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti (continued) (A/C.5/69/L.51)
Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.51: Financing of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti
15. Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.51 was adopted.
Agenda item 158: Financing of the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo
(continued) (A/C.5/69/L.52)
Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.52: Financing of the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo
16. Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.52 was adopted.
Agenda item 159: Financing of the United Nations Mission in Liberia (continued) (A/C.5/69/L.53)
Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.53: Financing of the United Nations Mission in Liberia
17. Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.53 was adopted.
Agenda item 160: Financing of the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali (continued) (A/C.5/69/L.54)
Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.54: Financing of the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali
18. Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.54 was adopted.
Agenda item 161: Financing of the United Nations peacekeeping forces in the Middle East (continued)
(a) United Nations Disengagement Observer Force
(continued) (A/C.5/69/L.55)
Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.55: Financing of the United Nations Disengagement Observer Force
19. Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.55 was adopted.
(b) United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon
(continued) (A/C.5/69/L.44)
Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.44: Financing of the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon
20. Mr. Davidson (South Africa), speaking on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, said that, after paragraph 10, a new paragraph 10 bis should be inserted, to read:
“10 bis. Notes with concern the observations of the Advisory Committee identified in paragraph 27 of its report, and in this regard requests the Secretary-General to ensure that the proposed staffing levels contained in the budget report will not have a detrimental effect on the provision of essential maintenance support services to the different mission components, and to report thereon in his next performance report and budget proposal for UNIFIL”.
21. Ms. Van Buerle (Secretary of the Committee) said that paragraph 10 should read: “Endorses the conclusions and recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions, subject to the provisions of the present resolution ...”.
22. In paragraph 15, line two, the total amount should read “531,412,900 dollars”; the second blank should read “506,346,400 dollars”; the third blank should read “20,863,600 dollars”; and the fourth blank should read “4,202,900 dollars”.
4/11
15-10367
A/C.5/69/SR.44
23. In paragraph 16, line one, the amount should read
“88,568,820 dollars”. In paragraph 18, line two, the amount should read “177,137,630 dollars”. In paragraph 20, line two, the amount should read “265,706,450 dollars”, and the second blank should read “44,284,408 dollars”. The subsequent amounts in paragraphs 17, 19 and 21 would be updated
accordingly.
24. Mr. Goren (Israel) said that it was the practice in the Fifth Committee to work by consensus. Sadly, however, the farcical tactics employed with regard to the budget of the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL) had become part of the Committee's working methods. The evading of engagement, the aggressive submission of a draft resolution, and the wholesale politicization of the Committee continued year after year, in what had become a sideshow in the theatre of the absurd. Many members of the Committee would be outraged if such actions occurred under any other agenda item. They could not be accepted as business as usual.
25. Israel maintained excellent relationships with all the peacekeeping forces in the region, including UNIFIL, and continued to demonstrate its unequivocal political and financial support for United Nations peacekeeping operations. His Government was one of the few to have paid all its assessments in full and on time. His delegation expressed its gratitude to all troop-contributing countries and all those supporting the work of peacekeeping operations.
26. The fourth preambular paragraph and paragraphs 4, 5 and 13 were an attempt at inserting a political agenda in a budget discussion. His delegation requested a recorded vote on those paragraphs, and would vote against.
27. The Chair said that a recorded vote had been requested.
28. At the request of the representative of Israel, a recorded vote was taken on the fourth preambular paragraph and paragraphs 4, 5 and 13 of draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.44.
In favour:
Afghanistan, Algeria, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo,
Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea, Fiji, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Korea (Democratic People's Republic of), Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Liberia, Libya, Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Myanmar, Namibia, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Russian Federation, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Syrian Arab Republic, Tanzania (United Republic of), Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Zimbabwe.
Against:
Canada, Israel, United States of America.
Abstaining:
Albania, Andorra, Australia, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Korea (Republic of), Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia (The former Yugoslav Republic of), Malta, Republic of Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Panama, Poland, Romania, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Zambia.
29. The fourth preambular paragraph and
paragraphs 4, 5 and 13 of draft resolution
A/C.5/69/L.44 were adopted by 86 votes to 3, with 50 abstentions.
30. Ms. Norman Chalet (United States of America) said that while the United States strongly supported the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon and its important mandate, the use of funding resolutions to pursue claims against a Member State was not procedurally correct, hence her delegation's opposition to previous General Assembly resolutions requiring Israel to pay for costs stemming from the Q'ana
15-10367
5/11
A/C.5/69/SR.44
incident of 1996. Those resolutions were not consensus resolutions.
31. The procedure followed since shortly after the founding of the United Nations had been for the Secretary-General to pursue settlement of the Organization's claims against States. Using a funding resolution to legislate a settlement was inappropriate, politicized the work of the Committee, and should be avoided. Accordingly, her delegation had voted against.
32. The Chair said that a recorded vote had been requested on draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.44, as orally amended, as a whole.
33. A recorded vote was taken was taken on draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.44, as orally amended, as a whole.
In favour:
Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Cameroon, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea, Estonia, Fiji, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Korea (Democratic People's Republic of), Korea (Republic of), Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Liberia, Libya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia (The former Yugoslav Republic of), Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Republic of Moldova, Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, Myanmar, Namibia, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab
Republic, Tanzania (United Republic of), Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Zambia, Zimbabwe.
Against:
Canada, Israel, United States of America. Abstaining:
Central African Republic.
34. Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.44, as orally amended, was adopted by 139 votes to 3, with 1 abstention.
35. Mr. Abbas (Lebanon) paid tribute to the sacrifices of United Nations peacekeepers in the service of peace and stability around the world, in particular in the Middle East, and expressed gratitude to the countries contributing troops to UNIFIL.
36. Welcoming adoption of the draft resolution, he said that his delegation's vote in favour reflected its unwavering support for UNIFIL's contribution to peace and stability in the region since its establishment in 1978 and fulfilment of its mandate to fully implement Security Council resolution 1701 (2006).
37. His delegation had also voted in favour of the fourth preambular paragraph and paragraphs 4, 5 and 13, made necessary by Israel's persistent non-compliance with previous resolutions. He supported the Secretary-General's efforts to secure the payment to UNIFIL of the amount of $1,117,005 as compensation for the shelling and destruction of the Force's headquarters at Q'ana in April 1996.
38. Ms. Karamane (Latvia), speaking on behalf of the member States of the European Union, said that the member States were concerned that no consensus had been reached on the draft resolution, and that political elements had been introduced in the work of the Committee.
39. The member States had abstained in the vote on the fourth preambular paragraph and paragraphs 4, 5 and 13 as they considered the text inappropriate in the context of the financing of UNIFIL. The broader political aspects of the events referred to, including the incident at Q'ana, had been debated extensively in the plenary Assembly in April 1996, and reflected in
6/11
15-10367
A/C.5/69/SR.44
resolution 50/22 C, at which time the member States had made clear their position.
40. The member States would have preferred the Committee's consultations on the matter to have been confined to the budgetary aspects of the financing of UNIFIL. Nevertheless, they had voted in favour of the draft resolution as a whole, as it provided the Force with the resources needed to discharge its important mandate.
Agenda item 162: Financing of the United Nations Mission in South Sudan (continued) (A/C.5/69/L.56)
Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.56: Financing of the United Nations Mission in South Sudan
41. Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.56 was adopted.
Agenda item 163: Financing of the United Nations Mission in the Sudan (continued) (A/C.5/69/L.41)
Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.41: Financing of the United Nations Mission in the Sudan
42. Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.41 was adopted.
Agenda item 164: Financing of the United Nations Supervision Mission in the Syrian Arab Republic
(continued) (A/C.5/69/L.42)
Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.42: Financing of the United Nations Supervision Mission in the Syrian Arab Republic
43. Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.42 was adopted.
Agenda item 165: Financing of the United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara
(continued) (A/C.5/69/L.57)
Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.57: Financing of the United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara
44. Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.57 was adopted.
Agenda item 166: Financing of the African Union United Nations Hybrid Operation in Darfur
(continued) (A/C.5/69/L.58)
Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.58: Financing of the African Union-United Nations Hybrid Operation in Darfur
45. Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.58 was adopted.
Agenda item 167: Financing of the activities arising from Security Council resolution 1863 (2009)
(continued) (A/C.5/69/L.59)
Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.59: Financing of the activities arising from Security Council resolution 1863 (2009)
46. Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.59 was adopted.
Agenda item 148: Administrative and budgetary aspects of the financing of the United Nations peacekeeping operations (continued)
Cross-cutting issues (continued) (A/C.5/69/L.60)
Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.60: Cross-cutting issues
47. Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.60 was adopted.
Support account for peacekeeping operations (continued) (A/C.5/69/23; A/C.5/69/L.61)
Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.61: Support account for peacekeeping operations
48. Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.61 was adopted.
United Nations Logistics Base (continued) (A/C.5/69/23; A/C.5/69/L.62)
Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.62: Financing of the United Nations Logistics Base at Brindisi, Italy
49. Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.62 was adopted.
50. The Chair invited the Committee to take note of the information in the Secretary-General's note on the financing of the support account for peacekeeping operations and the United Nations Logistics Base at Brindisi, Italy (A/C.5/69/23), which, in accordance with the prorating procedures established in General Assembly resolution 50/221 B, indicated the amounts to be apportioned in respect of each peacekeeping mission, including the prorated share of the support account and of the United Nations Logistics Base.
Agenda item 132: Programme budget for the biennium 2014-2015 (continued)
Special subjects relating to the programme budget for the biennium 2014-2015 (A/C.5/69/L.63)
Draft resolution A/C.5/69/L.63: Special subjects relating to the programme budget for the biennium 2014-2015
51. Draft resolution A/C. 5/69/L. 63 was adopted.
15-10367
7/11
A/C.5/69/SR.44
Agenda item 131: Review of the efficiency of the administrative and financial functioning of the United Nations (continued)
Questions deferred for future consideration (A/C.5/69/L.64)
Draft decision A/C.5/69/L.64: Questions deferred for future consideration
52. Draft decision A/C.5/69/L.64 was adopted.
Completion of the work of the Fifth Committee at the second part of the resumed sixty-ninth session of the General Assembly
53. Ms. Lingenfelder (South Africa), speaking on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, welcomed the adoption of a draft resolution on cross -cutting issues: the guidance it provided would improve the efficacy of peacekeeping operations in terms of budget presentation and financial management, personnel issues, operational requirements, special measures for protection from sexual exploitation and sexual abuse, the global field support strategy and other issues.
54. The Group welcomed the conducting of an external independent review to assess the response of the United Nations to recent allegations of sexual exploitation and sexual abuse in the Central African Republic, and looked forward to its findings. The initiative would strengthen full implementation of the zero-tolerance policy. The Group requested the Secretary General to maintain the current reporting methodology and to continue to engage with Member States, in particular with troop- and police-contributing countries.
55. The Group acknowledged the increasing complexity of peacekeeping operations and recognized the great sacrifices made by peacekeepers in harsh and often dangerous situations. The Group welcomed the agreement on the settlement of death and disability compensation claims, as well as its timely review.
56. Troop- and police-contributing countries made an invaluable contribution to the maintenance of international peace and security; the Secretary General must continue to closely consult with those countries on all matters related to peacekeeping operations.
57. She expressed concern regarding the current working methods of the Committee, which had led to its inability to finish its work on time as structured in
the original programme of work. The fluid nature of the programme of work at the session, which had been constantly updated and amended, had created an atmosphere of uncertainty. The cooperation and commitment of both Member States and the Secretariat were required to address that issue.
58. Mr. Dosseh (Togo), speaking on behalf of the African Group, welcomed the constructive engagement which had facilitated progress on many issues, including the adoption of a draft resolution on cross cutting issues for the first time in three years. Nevertheless, the Group was concerned by the failure to respect deadlines, which had meant that the second part of the resumed session had lasted almost two months; in future the Committee must do more to conclude its work on time. The prolonged session had also made it difficult for delegations to accommodate other commitments, not least those relating to the Committee for Programme and Coordination.
59. Ms. Power (Observer for the European Union) said that the member States of the European Union remain committed to peacekeeping, a flagship activity of the United Nations, and valued the partnership between the Secretariat, troop-contributing and host countries, and financial contributors.
60. She welcomed the consensus reached on all outstanding issues, which, first and foremost, had ensured that peacekeeping missions were provided with the necessary financial resources to continue their operations, a matter of prime importance. The European Union was pleased that the Committee's deliberations had been guided by strict budgetary discipline to ensure that resources were used effectively, efficiently and in an accountable and transparent manner.
61. Regrettably, however, the lengthy negotiations that had been critical to reaching consensus had again impeded the prompt issuance of draft resolutions in all official languages, in accordance with the rules of procedure and relevant resolutions on multilingualism and the pattern of conferences. The Committee must improve the way it worked to guarantee due diligence on budgetary matters while also ensuring that other General Assembly mandates were fully observed.
62. The adoption of a draft resolution on peacekeeping cross-cutting issues, three years since the previous resolution, reflected the importance of providing guidance on the overarching themes
8/11
15-10367
A/C.5/69/SR.44
important for the effective operation of peacekeeping missions. Inter alia, the draft resolution signalled the determination of Member States and the Secretary General to undertake all relevant actions within their areas of competence to ensure protection from sexual exploitation and sexual abuse. The European Union accorded the highest priority to full implementation of the policy of zero tolerance.
63. Also of importance was the successful outcome of negotiations on the United Nations Mission for Ebola Emergency Response (UNMEER) and additional resources for special political missions. Lastly, she stressed the vital importance of the issues that were the purview of the Committee as going to the very core of sustaining the United Nations and delivery of its global mission of peace and security, development and human rights.
64. Ms. Paik Ji-ah (Republic of Korea), speaking also on behalf of Australia, Indonesia, Mexico and Turkey, welcomed the fact that the Committee had reached agreement on most issues by consensus, thereby ensuring that peacekeeping missions had the necessary financial resources to implement their mandates. However, the Committee had overrun its scheduled completion date at the second part of the resumed session by more than three weeks, an urgent reminder of the need to reform its working methods.
65. In that regard, it was of the utmost importance to enhance the collective accountability of all stakeholders: Member States, Secretariat and Bureau. A firm deadline should be set for each part of the session - and observed by all - as that would encourage more efficient and effective negotiation and lead to more desirable outcomes. The five delegations intended to put forward specific proposals in due course.
66. Mr. Akamatsu (Japan) welcomed the fact that the Committee had reached agreement by consensus on all outstanding issues. In particular, he was gratified by the adoption, for the first time in three years, of a draft resolution on cross-cutting issues. The resources approved for each peacekeeping mission would allow efficient and effective delivery of their mandates. His delegation expected all requests by the General Assembly to be implemented, in particular the strengthening of measures for protection from sexual exploitation and sexual abuse.
67. Mr. Nyago (Uganda) said that his delegation was gratified that negotiations on peacekeeping had reflected accountability and budgetary efficiency without compromising mandates. In particular, he welcomed the draft resolution on cross-cutting issues and the commitment to strengthen the Regional Service Centre at Entebbe in the context of the global field support strategy by granting it operational and managerial independence.
68. His Government supported United Nations peacekeeping through financial contributions, deployment of troops and support to regional mechanisms for the promotion of peace. The Secretary General should consider increasing the level of training and equipment costs for regional peacekeeping initiatives with a United Nations mandate.
69. Ms. Norman Chalet (United States of America) acknowledged the timely issuance of documentation, enabling the Committee to take informed decisions on peacekeeping. Her delegation remained a staunch supporter of peacekeeping, and expressed its gratitude to personnel in the field and at Headquarters. The outcome of the second part of the resumed session was important for the global peacekeeping partnership, and demonstrated the Committee's ability to address complex issues.
70. The adoption of a cross-cutting resolution for the first time since the sixty-sixth session would permit strategic guidance on the financial and budgetary policies governing peacekeeping activities. At the same time, the Committee had identified savings and efficiencies without diminishing the effectiveness of mandate delivery.
71. The Committee had also taken important decisions with regard to the prevention of sexual exploitation and abuse, an issue that threatened the principles upon which the Organization had been founded and one that tore at the very fabric of peacekeeping. The Committee's decisions, including support for the strengthening of the zero-tolerance policy, would improve the Organization's ability to prevent and respond to allegations of abuse, and increase transparency and Member State accountability.
72. She welcomed the benefits realized under the global field support strategy, including those related to shared services in the implementation of the strategy, and looked forward to seeing the lessons learned
15-10367
9/11
A/C.5/69/SR.44
incorporated into future change initiatives. The Committee had recognized the importance of the Regional Service Centre at Entebbe, and taken efforts to ensure the operational and managerial independence of the Centre. Her delegation would continue to support initiatives under the strategy as they were mainstreamed into the work of the Secretariat, including in the context of supply chain management.
73. With the adoption of the draft resolution on UNMEER, the Committee had recognized the efforts made to tackle the crisis caused by the Ebola outbreak. However, UNMEER had served its purpose and could be drawn down. Through the support account draft resolution, the Committee had acknowledged the importance of the work undertaken in many different areas of peacekeeping, including in security sector reform, conduct and discipline, and human rights.
74. Mr. Tommo Monthe (Cameroon) congratulated the Chair on having passed the key tests attaching to chairmanship of the Committee by ensuring, through his strategic vision and hands-on leadership, that the Committee unfailingly observed the specific management rules relating to property, finances, programmes and human resources that must always guide its work, as the decisions taken under his stewardship would long have an impact on the common system and its staff.
75. Delegations had stated that the Committee's work went on for too long. The Secretariat was responsible for such technical aspects as the presentation of documents and their submission for consideration, and the timely provision of accurate and trustworthy information during the Committee's deliberations.
76. But the art of conducting negotiations was the responsibility of Member States. It should be kept in mind that the Committee's responsibilities lay in the area of budget and finance, and that budget negotiations, involving as they did the level and allocation of resources, were inherently protracted, whether in the Fifth Committee or in other forums, including at the national level. In addition, delegations must consider their negotiating tactics: rather than reveal their positions at the last moment, it would be easier to reach agreement if positions were made known at the outset, thereby allowing time for trade offs, to reconcile views, and so to conclude matters on time. Moreover, if the Committee avoided negotiating over trifling amounts of a few thousand dollars but
simply took decisions without more ado it would reach conclusions more promptly.
77. A further consideration was that the Committee functioned on the basis of consensus, which, with regard to means of implementation, facilitated the subsequent payment of assessments by Member States. While the alternative, of voting, which was not excluded by resolution 41/213, the foundation for the consensus-based approach, and which was in accordance with both the rules of procedure and the Charter, would allow the Committee to finish its work more quickly, it would make the payment of assessments more problematic. The Committee had thus preferred to undertake the arduous negotiations necessary to reach consensus.
78. Lastly, the Committee's credibility and the successful conclusion of its work depended on the choice of Chair. Regional groups, in selecting candidates for chairmanship of the Committee, must keep in mind the need for wisdom, knowledge of the rules and regulations, relevance of views, sense of direction and tact in conducting the Committee's work.
79. Ms. Smolcic (Uruguay) acknowledged the Chair's role in initiating discussion of the Committee's working methods, which must be further developed, as must trust between its members.
80. Ms. Mukashyaka (Rwanda) said that the Committee's efforts to reach consensus had permitted the adoption of a draft resolution on cross-cutting issues, setting a benchmark for future sessions, and acknowledged the role of the Chair in that regard.
81. Mr. Khalizov (Russian Federation) noted with satisfaction the adoption by consensus of the majority of draft resolutions. He trusted that their adoption would result in the timely and full implementation of peacekeeping mandates.
82. The draft resolution on cross-cutting issues covered, inter alia, the physical security of those working under contracts with the United Nations in the field. He drew the attention of the Under-SecretaryGeneral for Field Services to the request in the draft resolution to consider the problems relating to the physical safety of those personnel and to report thereon in detail at the seventieth session. Recently there had been a number of incidents involving abductions and deaths, demonstrating the need for significant
10/11
15-10367
A/C.5/69/SR.44
additional efforts to increase the physical security and safety of personnel.
83. Mr. Khare (Under-Secretary-General for Field Support) said that despite significant increases in requirements for some missions, the reduction in overall peacekeeping costs for 2015/16, compared with 2014/15, reflected the commitment to pursue efficiency and to focus on priorities while ensuring that mandate delivery was maintained. The Department would make every effort to meet the expectations of the membership in utilizing the resources approved, but would revert to the Committee if additional resources were required due to changes in base assumptions.
84. Implementation of the global field support strategy had brought many positive changes, some of which were still under way as the Department mainstreamed a strategic approach to field support into its work. The Department would maintain its dialogue with the Fifth Committee as well as with the Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations to ensure that the strategy continued to enhance field service delivery.
85. The Department was committed to ensuring that the lessons and good practices established during the global field support strategy period would continue. He welcomed the support for strengthened management of the global supply chain, thereby ensuring a more efficient approach to sourcing, distribution and oversight across all missions. The Department was committed to timely delivery of the four pilot projects for supply chain management and to bringing the initiative to scale.
86. Shared services would deliver significant efficiencies and economies of scale and allow more efficient management of remote administrative support to current missions. The United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali (MINUSMA), for example, would need a replacement for remote support from the United Nations Operation in Cote d'Ivoire (UNOCI) as that mission drew down.
87. Approval of a stand-alone budget for the Regional Service Centre at Entebbe would improve transparency, accountability and oversight; increase efficiency in budget formulation and execution; and ensure managerial and operational independence, while retaining mission ownership and support for the Centre through a client board structure.
88. Lastly, conduct and discipline remained of the highest priority, especially in relation to sexual exploitation and abuse. There was a collective responsibility to eliminate such abuse. He welcomed the Committee's agreement on reporting methodology and strengthening of zero tolerance.
89. The Chair said that although the attainment of perfection was not possible, the road to that end was more interesting than the goal itself. Perfection, then, was less the goal than the results achieved and those to whom hope was given.
90. The Organization would never be truly perfect, and could only be as perfect as the decisions of Member States permitted. The Fifth Committee made a significant contribution to the work of the United Nations. The outcome of the Committee's work at the current session was very encouraging, and provided momentum for the seventieth session.
91. Notwithstanding the increased volume of documentation, for the first time in five years all reports to be considered by the Committee had been issued before the start of the second part of the resumed session. The draft resolution on cross-cutting issues addressed very sensitive questions, and provided for more transparency, responsibility and accountability in the work of the United Nations and its peace operations. It offered the prospect of zero tolerance of abuse of the innocent, and of a more effective and transparent Organization.
92. There was still much to do to revitalize and modernize the United Nations, but a start had been made. Further discussion was needed of how to improve the Committee's working methods, cooperation and communication, vertical as well as horizontal. But the Committee should not complain; rather, it should be mindful of the pains and wounds of the world and make every effort to contribute to a cure.
93. He declared that the Fifth Committee had completed its work at the second part of the resumed sixty-ninth session of the General Assembly.
The meeting rose at 5.25 p.m.
15-10367
11/11