United Nations
A/C.5/70/SR.39
General Assembly
Seventieth session
Official Records
Distr.: General 6 July 2016
Original: English
Fifth Committee
Summary record of the 39th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Monday, 13 June 2016, at 3 p.m.
Chair: Mr. Bhattarai (Nepal)
Chair of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions: Mr. Ruiz Massieu
Contents
Agenda item 5: Election of the officers of the Main Committees
Agenda item 131: Financial reports and audited financial statements, and reports of the Board of Auditors (continued)
Agenda item 149: Financing of the United Nations Interim Security Force for Abyei (continued)
Agenda item 150: Financing of the United Nations Mission in the Central African Republic and Chad (continued)
Agenda item 151: Financing of the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic (continued)
Agenda item 152: Financing of the United Nations Operation in Cote d'Ivoire (continued)
Agenda item 153: Financing of the United Nations Peacekeeping Force in Cyprus (continued)
Agenda item 154: Financing of the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (continued)
Agenda item 156: Financing of the United Nations Integrated Mission in Timor Leste (continued)
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Control Unit (srcorrections@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
16-09847 (E)
III III II11 Hill
A/C.5/70/SR.39
Agenda item 157: Financing of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti (continued)
Agenda item 158: Financing of the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (continued)
Agenda item 159: Financing of the United Nations Mission in Liberia (continued)
Agenda item 160: Financing of the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali (continued)
Agenda item 161: Financing of the United Nations peacekeeping forces in the Middle East (continued)
(a) United Nations Disengagement Observer Force (continued)
(b) United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (continued)
Agenda item 162: Financing of the United Nations Mission in South Sudan (continued)
Agenda item 163: Financing of the United Nations Supervision Mission in the Syrian Arab Republic (continued)
Agenda item 164: Financing of the United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara (continued)
Agenda item 165: Financing of the African Union-United Nations Hybrid Operation in Darfur (continued)
Agenda item 166: Financing of the activities arising from Security Council resolution 1863 (2009) (continued)
Agenda item 148: Administrative and budgetary aspects of the financing of the United Nations peacekeeping operations (continued)
Cross-cutting issues (continued)
Support account for peacekeeping operations (continued)
United Nations Logistics Base at Brindisi, Italy (continued)
Regional Service Centre in Entebbe, Uganda
Agenda item 134: Programme budget for the biennium 2016 -2017 (continued)
Special subjects relating to the programme budget for the biennium 2016-2017 (continued)
Agenda item 132: Review of the efficiency of the administrative and financial functioning of the United Nations (continued)
Questions deferred for future consideration
Expressions of sympathy in connection with the shooting in Orlando, Florida on 12 June 2016
Completion of the work of the Fifth Committee at the second part of the resumed seventieth session of the General Assembly
2/12
16-09847
A/C.5/70/SR.39
The meeting was called to order at 3.25 p.m.
Agenda item 5: Election of the officers of the Main Committees
1. The Chair said that, in accordance with rule 99 (a) of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, the Committee would proceed with the election of the members of its Bureau for the seventy-first session of the General Assembly.
2. As consultations were still being conducted by the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States for the post of Chair, that election would be postponed.
3. In accordance with rule 103 of the rules of procedure, for two of the posts of Vice-Chair, Mr. Burity (Angola) and Mr. Pretterhofer (Austria) had been nominated and endorsed by the Group of African States and by the Group of Western European and Other States, respectively, and, for the post of Rapporteur, Ms. Lee (Singapore) had been nominated and endorsed by the Group of Asia-Pacific States.
4. As consultations were still being conducted by the Group of Eastern European States on a nomination for the third post of Vice-Chair, that election would be postponed.
5. Mr. Burity (Angola) and Mr. Pretterhofer (Austria) were elected Vice-Chairs, and Ms. Lee (Singapore) was elected Rapporteur, by acclamation.
6. The Chair informed the Committee that some of the draft resolutions and decisions to be introduced had only recently been adopted informally, and were thus provisional and available in English only. With full regard for the resolutions of the General Assembly on multilingualism, he acknowledged the Committee's flexibility in proceeding on that basis so as to conclude its work at the second part of the resumed session.
Agenda item 131: Financial reports and audited financial statements, and reports of the Board of Auditors (continued) (A/C.5/70/L.37)
Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.37: Financial reports and audited financial statements, and reports of the Board of Auditors
7. Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.37 was adopted.
Agenda item 149: Financing of the United Nations Interim Security Force for Abyei (continued) (A/C.5/70/L.39)
Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.39: Financing of the United Nations Interim Security Force for Abyei
8. Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.39 was adopted.
Agenda item 150: Financing of the United Nations Mission in the Central African Republic and Chad
(continued) (A/C.5/70/L.34)
Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.34: Financing of the United Nations Mission in the Central African Republic and Chad
9. Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.34 was adopted.
Agenda item 151: Financing of the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic (continued) (A/C.5/70/L.40)
Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.40: Financing of the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic
10. Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.40 was adopted.
Agenda item 152: Financing of the United Nations Operation in Cote d'Ivoire (continued)
(A/C.5/70/L.41)
Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.41: Financing of the United Nations Operation in Cote d'Ivoire
11. Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.41 was adopted.
Agenda item 153: Financing of the United Nations Peacekeeping Force in Cyprus (continued) (A/C.5/70/L.42)
Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.42: Financing of the United Nations Peacekeeping Force in Cyprus
12. Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.42 was adopted.
Agenda item 154: Financing of the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (continued) (A/C.5/70/L.43)
Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.43: Financing of the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo
16-09847
3/12
A/C.5/70/SR.39
13. Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.43 was adopted.
Agenda item 156: Financing of the United Nations Integrated Mission in Timor-Leste (continued) (A/C.5/70/L.35)
Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.35: Financing of the United Nations Integrated Mission in Timor-Leste
14. Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.35 was adopted.
Agenda item 157: Financing of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti (continued) (A/C.5/70/L.44)
Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.44: Financing of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti
15. Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.44 was adopted.
Agenda item 158: Financing of the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo
(continued) (A/C.5/70/L.45)
Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.45: Financing of the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo
16. Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.45 was adopted.
Agenda item 159: Financing of the United Nations Mission in Liberia (continued) (A/C.5/70/L.46)
Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.46: Financing of the United Nations Mission in Liberia
17. Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.46 was adopted.
Agenda item 160: Financing of the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali (continued) (A/C.5/70/L.47)
Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.47: Financing of the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali
18. Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.47 was adopted.
Agenda item 161: Financing of the United Nations peacekeeping forces in the Middle East (continued)
(a) United Nations Disengagement Observer Force
(continued) (A/C.5/70/L.48)
Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.48: Financing of the United Nations Disengagement Observer Force
19. Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.48 was adopted.
(b) United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon
(continued) (A/C.5/70/L.38)
Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.38: Financing of the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon
20. Ms. Van Buerle (Secretary of the Committee) said that, in paragraph 15 of the draft resolution, line two, the total amount should read “515,067,900 dollars”; the second blank in paragraph 15 should read “488,691,600 dollars”; the third blank should read “21,222,900 dollars”; and the fourth blank should read “5,153,400 dollars”.
21. In paragraph 16, line one, the amount should read “85,844,650 dollars”.
22. In paragraph 17, line four, the share in the Tax Equalization Fund should read “2,406,640 dollars”; the second blank in paragraph 17 should read “2,041,530 dollars”; the third blank should read “302,680 dollars”; and the fourth blank should read “62,430 dollars”.
23. In paragraph 18, line two, the amount should read “429,223,250 dollars”; and the second blank in paragraph 18 should read “42,922,325 dollars”.
24. In paragraph 19, line four, the share in the Tax Equalization Fund should read “12,033,260 dollars”; the second blank in paragraph 19 should read “10,207,670 dollars”; the third blank should read “1,513,420 dollars”; and the fourth blank should read “312,170 dollars”.
25. Ms. Turel (Israel) said that the special treatment applied to the budget of the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL) brought shame on a Committee that otherwise respected the principle of consensus. The evading of engagement, the aggressive submission of a draft resolution, and the wholesale politicization of the Committee continued year after year, in what had become a sideshow in the theatre of the absurd. Such actions could not be accepted as business as usual. Israel maintained excellent relationships with the peacekeeping forces in the region, including UNIFIL, and continued to demonstrate its unequivocal political and financial support for United Nations peacekeeping operations. Her delegation expressed its gratitude to all troop contributing countries and all those supporting the work of peacekeeping operations.
4/12
16-09847
A/C.5/70/SR.39
26. The fourth preambular paragraph and paragraphs 4, 5 and 13 were an attempt at inserting a political agenda in a budget discussion. Her delegation requested a recorded vote on those paragraphs, and would vote against.
27. The Chair said that a recorded vote had been requested.
28. At the request of the representative of Israel, a recorded vote was taken on the fourth preambular paragraph and paragraphs 4, 5 and 13 of draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.38.
In favour:
Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Gabon, Ghana, Guatemala, Guyana, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Liberia, Libya, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Russian Federation, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.
Against:
Canada, Israel, United States of America.
Abstaining:
Albania, Andorra, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guinea, Haiti, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Panama, Poland, Republic of Moldova, Romania, San Marino, Serbia,
Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Ukraine,
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Vanuatu.
29. The fourth preambular paragraph and
paragraphs 4, 5 and 13 of draft resolution
A/C.5/70/L.38 were adopted by 94 votes to 3, with 50 abstentions.
30. Ms. Norman Chalet (United States of America)
said that while the United States of America strongly supported the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon and its important mandate, the use of funding
resolutions to pursue claims against a Member State was not procedurally correct, hence her delegation's opposition to previous General Assembly resolutions requiring Israel to pay for costs stemming from the Qana incident of 1996. Those resolutions were not consensus resolutions.
31. The procedure followed since shortly after the founding of the United Nations had been for the Secretary-General to pursue settlement of the Organization's claims against States. Using a funding resolution to legislate a settlement was inappropriate, politicized the work of the Committee, and should be avoided. Accordingly, her delegation had voted against.
32. Mr. Planting (Netherlands), speaking on behalf of the member States of the European Union, said that the member States were concerned that no consensus had been reached on the draft resolution, and that political elements had been introduced in the work of the Committee.
33. The member States had abstained in the vote on the fourth preambular paragraph and paragraphs 4, 5 and 13 as they considered the text inappropriate in the context of the financing of UNIFIL. The broader political aspects of the events referred to, including the incident at Qana, had been debated extensively in the plenary Assembly in April 1996, and reflected in resolution 50/22 C, at which time the member States had made clear their position.
34. The member States would have preferred the Committee's consultations on the matter to have been confined to the budgetary aspects of the financing of UNIFIL. Nevertheless, they would vote in favour of
16-09847
5/12
A/C.5/70/SR.39
the draft resolution as a whole, as it provided the Force with the resources needed to discharge its important mandate.
35. The Chair said that a recorded vote had been requested on draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.38, as orally amended, as a whole.
36. A recorded vote was taken was taken on draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.38, as orally amended, as a whole.
In favour:
Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Estonia, Finland, France, Gabon, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela (Bolivarian
Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.
Against:
Canada, Israel, United States of America.
Abstaining:
None.
37. Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.38, as orally amended, was adopted by 146 votes to 3, with 0 abstentions.
38. Mr. Francis (Lebanon) said that his delegation was grateful to those countries that had voted in favour of the draft resolution, particularly the members of the Group of 77 and China, the Organization of Islamic Cooperation, and the League of Arab States. His Government appreciated the Force's contribution to peace and stability since its establishment in 1978, particularly in view of recent developments in the region, and expressed its gratitude to the countries contributing troops to UNIFIL. He commended the excellent relations between UNIFIL and the Lebanese army.
39. The wording of the fourth preambular paragraph and paragraphs 4, 5 and 13 was not political in nature, since they merely called upon Israel to comply with previous General Assembly resolutions requesting it to pay compensation to the Organization in the amount of $1,117,005 for the shelling of the United Nations compound at Qana in 1996, which had destroyed the UNIFIL headquarters, killing innocent Lebanese civilians. That amount was entirely earmarked to compensate the United Nations for damage to property; nothing would go to the Lebanese State or the relatives of the civilian victims. As the matter was purely financial in nature, it was naturally within the purview of the Fifth Committee.
Agenda item 162: Financing of the United Nations Mission in South Sudan (continued) (A/C.5/70/L.49)
Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.49: Financing of the United Nations Mission in South Sudan
40. Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.49 was adopted.
Agenda item 163: Financing of the United Nations Supervision Mission in the Syrian Arab Republic
(continued) (A/C.5/70/L.36)
6/12
16-09847
A/C.5/70/SR.39
Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.36: Financing of the United Nations Supervision Mission in the Syrian Arab Republic
41. Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.36 was adopted.
Agenda item 164: Financing of the United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara
(continued) (A/C.5/70/L.50)
Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.50: Financing of the United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara
42. Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.50 was adopted.
Agenda item 165: Financing of the African Union United Nations Hybrid Operation in Darfur
(continued) (A/C.5/70/L.51)
Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.51: Financing of the African Union-United Nations Hybrid Operation in Darfur
43. Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.51 was adopted.
Agenda item 166: Financing of the activities arising from Security Council resolution 1863 (2009)
(continued) (A/C.5/70/L.52)
Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.52: Financing of the activities arising from Security Council resolution 1863 (2009)
44. Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.52 was adopted.
Agenda item 148: Administrative and budgetary aspects of the financing of the United Nations peacekeeping operations (continued) (A/C.5/70/23)
Cross-cutting issues (continued) (A/C.5/70/L.53)
Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.53: Cross-cutting issues
45. Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.53 was adopted.
Support account for peacekeeping operations (continued) (A/C.5/70/L.54)
Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.54: Support account for peacekeeping operations
46. Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.54 was adopted.
United Nations Logistics Base at Brindisi, Italy (continued) (A/C.5/70/L.55)
Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.55: Financing of the United Nations Logistics Base at Brindisi, Italy
47. Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.55 was adopted.
Regional Service Centre in Entebbe, Uganda (A/C.5/70/L.56)
Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.56: Financing of the Regional Service Centre in Entebbe, Uganda
48. Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.56 was adopted.
49. The Chair invited the Committee to take note of the information in the Secretary-General's note on the financing of the support account for peacekeeping operations, the United Nations Logistics Base at Brindisi, Italy and the Regional Service Centre in Entebbe, Uganda (A/C.5/70/23), which, in accordance with the prorating procedures established in General Assembly resolution 50/221 B, indicated the amounts to be apportioned in respect of each peacekeeping mission, including the prorated share of the support account, the United Nations Logistics Base and the Regional Service Centre.
Agenda item 134: Programme budget for the biennium 2016-2017 (continued)
Special subjects relating to the programme budget for the biennium 2016-2017 (continued) (A/C.5/70/L.57)
Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.57: Special subjects relating to the programme budget for the biennium 2016-2017
50. Draft resolution A/C.5/70/L.57 was adopted.
Agenda item 132: Review of the efficiency of the administrative and financial functioning of the United Nations (continued)
Questions deferred for future consideration (A/C.5/70/L.58)
Draft decision A/C.5/70/L.58: Questions deferred for future consideration
51. Draft decision A/C.5/70/L.58 was adopted.
Expressions of sympathy in connection with the shooting in Orlando, Florida on 12 June 2016
52. The Chair, Ms. Turel (Israel), Mr. Francis (Lebanon), Ms. Wairatpanij (Thailand), speaking on
16-09847
7/12
A/C.5/70/SR.39
behalf of the Group of 77 and China, Mr. Kisoka (United Republic of Tanzania), speaking on behalf of the Group of African States, Mr. Vrailas (Observer for the European Union), Ms. Yang Liyang (China), Mr. Imada (Japan), Mr. Garcia Landa (Mexico) and Mr. Kandeel (Egypt) expressed sympathy to the Government of the United States of America in connection with the recent shooting in Orlando, Florida.
53. Ms. Coleman (United States of America) thanked the Chair and all delegations that had expressed sympathy in connection with the shooting in Orlando.
Completion of the work of the Fifth Committee at the second part of the resumed seventieth session of the General Assembly
54. Ms. Wairatpanij (Thailand), speaking on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, said that, although its negotiations had continued beyond the deadline for the second part of the resumed session, the Committee had nonetheless completed its work significantly earlier than at recent sessions, and had shown exemplary cooperation, flexibility and willingness to compromise in the final weeks of deliberations. She hoped that the lessons learned from the current session would contribute to improving the Committee's future work.
55. The Group welcomed the adoption of the draft resolution on cross-cutting issues, given the increasing complexity of peacekeeping operations and the great sacrifices made by peacekeeping forces under adverse circumstances. The draft resolution contained provisions relating to budget presentation and financial management aimed at ensuring compliance with, as well as effective and efficient implementation of, legislative mandates, together with personnel-related provisions focused on ensuring proper representation of troop-contributing countries and women in peacekeeping operations. It also covered operational requirements aimed at ensuring the transparency of various technology projects; timely reimbursement to troop-contributing countries for contingent-owned equipment; exploration of innovative ways to promote procurement from developing countries and countries with economies in transition; and the development of benefits realization plans for initiatives related to field support and service delivery, including the global field support strategy. The Group particularly commended the adoption of historic measures to ensure full implementation of the policy of zero tolerance of
sexual exploitation and abuse, which expanded the policy's scope to include not only all United Nations uniformed and civilian personnel but also non-United Nations forces operating under a Security Council mandate, and sought to ensure that information on allegations of abuse was included in future reports.
56. The Group welcomed the adoption of the draft resolution on the financing of the Regional Service Centre in Entebbe, Uganda which had, for the first time, been considered separately from other cross -cutting issues relating to peacekeeping, in recognition of its managerial and operational independence, as requested by the General Assembly. In that connection, the Group looked forward to the transfer of the Integrated Training Service to the Regional Service Centre, effective 1 January 2017. It was, however, unfortunate that no agreement had been reached on closed peacekeeping missions, despite creative new options for devising a solution to the issue of claims payable to Member States, particularly troop- and police-contributing countries, from closed peacekeeping operation budgets.
57. The Group was also concerned regarding provision in the 2016-2017 programme budget for support for implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Addis Ababa Action Agenda of the Third International Conference on Financing for Development; it looked forward to the timely submission of a comprehensive proposal by the Secretary-General to enable effective delivery of support for the two Agendas in compliance with the mandate provided by the General Assembly, relevant rules and regulations, and established budgetary practice. There was no time to be lost. Lastly, the Group looked forward to building on the momentum gained at the current session at the Assembly's seventy-first session.
58. Mr. Kisoka (United Republic of Tanzania), speaking on behalf of the Group of African States, said that the Committee should continue to improve its working methods and develop innovative ideas to ensure that future sessions were completed within the allotted time frame. The Group expected the Secretary General and managers to utilize the policy directives and resources approved for peacekeeping to ensure the timely implementation of mandates. The draft resolutions adopted by the Committee contained provisions relating to specific missions that emphasized, inter alia, the need for support for electoral processes in Haiti, the Democratic Republic
8/12
16-09847
A/C.5/70/SR.39
of the Congo and Somalia, and the use of technology in peacekeeping missions, including the United Nations Mission in South Sudan (UNMISS).
59. At future sessions, the Committee should devote greater attention to the question of termination indemnities for field personnel and to the administrative and budgetary support package for the African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), particularly with regard to reimbursement of troop costs and other logistical support elements, to ensure that they were commensurate with the resources provided for United Nations peacekeeping operations. The Group also looked forward to consideration of a comprehensive proposal on the restructuring of the United Nations office at Addis Ababa.
60. The Group welcomed the approval of resources
for enhancing mediation capacity within the Department of Political Affairs: more should be invested in preventive diplomacy and mediation capacity rather than peacekeeping. The Group looked forward to the Secretary-General's future proposals on strengthening the Organization's work in those areas, in line with established budgetary procedures. It discouraged unnecessary resource requests under the commitment authority procedure: the Advisory
Committee should pay close attention to such requests.
61. Revising the Fifth Committee's schedule and work methods would require consideration of the working practices of related bodies. While the Group was in favour of the Committee's current work arrangements, it remained open to discussions in the context of the comprehensive revitalization of the General Assembly, particularly with regard to extending the duration of Advisory Committee sessions and reviewing the conditions of service of its members. Member States must bear the financial burden resulting from adjustments to the Fifth Committee's current practices, while understanding that the calendar year was finite and that revisions to the Committee's programme of work would not change the behaviour of delegations in negotiations. The Group discouraged the use of unnecessary tactics against some of its members by a small number of delegations, as such practices created mistrust and undermined working relationships. Even when disagreements arose, those delegations should show the same respect for the views, comments and sovereignty of Group members that had been shown to them.
62. Mr. Vrailas (Observer for the European Union) said that the member States of the European Union remained committed to peacekeeping, a core activity of the United Nations, and valued the partnership between the Secretariat, troop-contributing and host countries, and financial contributors. He commended the hard work of all United Nations personnel involved in the difficult task of peacekeeping, and paid tribute to those who had lost their lives while serving in a United Nations peacekeeping mission.
63. The outcome of the Committee's negotiations ensured, first and foremost, that peacekeeping missions had the necessary financial resources to continue their operations without compromising delivery of mandates. The European Union attached great importance to strict budgetary discipline and to the use of resources in an effective, efficient, accountable and transparent manner - principles that were of primary importance to all.
64. He welcomed the adoption of the draft resolution on cross-cutting issues: it reflected the Committee's determination to engage pragmatically to provide guidance on the overarching themes important for the effective operation of peacekeeping missions. Inter alia, the draft resolution contained comprehensive provisions on, and provided for the necessary tools to enforce, a policy of zero tolerance of sexual abuse, which cast a cloud on the integrity of the entire Organization.
65. As it had consistently stressed that the payment of assessed contributions in full, on time and without conditions was a fundamental duty of all Member States, the European Union regretted that no consensus had been achieved on the longstanding question of reimbursement of Member States' financial contributions and payment of troop-contributing countries' claims in respect of closed peacekeeping operations. It was nevertheless confident that a settlement would be reached at the Assembly's seventy-first session.
66. The Committee had, once again, failed to complete its work within the prescribed time frame, which illustrated the inadequacy of the four weeks allotted at the second part of the resumed session for the Committee to consider the complex issues before it and approve individual peacekeeping budgets. In addition, the current scheduling of the meetings of the Fifth Committee and of the Committee for Programme
16-09847
9/12
A/C.5/70/SR.39
and Coordination hampered the organizational effectiveness of the Fifth Committee, contributing to delays in important decisions and to the need for costly and cumbersome workarounds to accommodate last minute negotiations and administrative actions before the start of the new budget period, to the detriment of the work of both Committees. Attention should also be paid to the impact of the uncertainty resulting from the delayed approval of budgets on United Nations staff whose livelihood depended on the relevant decisions, as well as on the recruitment of new staff and procurement planning.
67. Regarding a structural solution to the persistent delays in approving peacekeeping budgets, the European Union believed that a period of five to six weeks would be appropriate for the second part of the resumed session, starting in early May and finishing by a firm political deadline of mid-June. In that connection, he urged the Chair of the Committee to encourage the President of the General Assembly, the Under-Secretary-General for General Assembly and Conference Management, and the Co-Chair of the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Revitalization of the General Assembly to address the problems relating to the Committee's working methods. Lastly, his delegation would explore why, before 2011, it had been standard practice for the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions to issue reports on financing for peacekeeping operations during the first four months of the year only.
68. Ms. Yang Liyang (China) said that the Committee's timely completion of its work at the main part of the session and the first part of the resumed session, and the completion of the second part of the resumed session earlier than in recent years, illustrated the success of the efforts undertaken by the Committee's Chair, Bureau, secretariat and facilitators to improve the efficiency of its work. Noting that the Committee had agreed on a total peacekeeping budget of some $8 billion for 2016/17, she trusted that all Member States would pay their assessed contributions on time and in full, thereby ensuring the provision of adequate resources in support of peacekeeping mandates.
69. In that connection, the Secretariat must utilize financial resources effectively, representing as they did the contributions of taxpayers of Member States. Budgets for peacekeeping operations should be based on actual needs and be prepared on the basis of a
scientific approach, and should reflect fiscal prudence, with justification of each penny of expenditure. In addition, as her delegation had long advocated for respect for the sovereignty and needs of the host countries of peacekeeping operations, particularly African countries, it appreciated that their concerns had been taken into account in the preparation of the related peacekeeping budgets. She regretted that no budget for supporting implementation of the 2030 Agenda and the Addis Ababa Action Agenda had been approved, and expected proposals to be approved at the Assembly's seventy-first session. Lastly, she paid tribute to the great sacrifices made by the personnel of United Nations peacekeeping operations.
70. Mr. Imada (Japan) said that the positive outcome of the Committee's negotiations was the result of the constructive and flexible participation of all delegations, as well as the active engagement of coordinators. He expected the General Assembly's requests would be duly addressed by the Secretariat and that the resources approved for each peacekeeping mission and the related support elements would enable the effective and efficient delivery of mandates.
71. With the agreement of Member States, practical steps should be taken so that the Committee concluded the second part of the resumed session in a timely manner. For example, consideration of budgetary issues unrelated to peacekeeping missions could be avoided or postponed until after peacekeeping budgets had been approved.
72. Mr. Garcia Landa (Mexico) said that the outcome of the Committee's negotiations would ensure the provision of the necessary financial resources to support the delivery of peacekeeping mandates. In particular, the draft resolution on cross-cutting issues would provide guidelines to the Secretariat on the priorities of Member States.
73. The decisions taken to improve the Organization's response to cases of sexual exploitation and abuse were particularly welcome. Member States must strengthen their commitment to enforcing a zero tolerance policy in such cases, which caused irreparable harm and must never recur. His delegation welcomed the adoption of the draft resolution on financing of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti (MINUSTAH). The Mission played an important role in strengthening institutions, national security and democratic governance, the rule of law
10/12
16-09847
A/C.5/70/SR.39
and human rights, as well as in reducing the country's vulnerability to humanitarian crises, social violence and health crises. He also welcomed the Assembly's request that MINUSTAH should continue to provide support for the electoral process in Haiti.
74. His delegation supported the Committee's decision to revitalize the Organization's conflict prevention and mediation capacities by appropriating additional resources for the Department of Political Affairs, pursuant to the recommendations of the High level Independent Panel on Peace Operations. While the resources approved were inadequate to meet the significant needs in that area, they represented a satisfactory initial step. His delegation looked forward to continued discussion of the recommendations of the High-level Panel.
75. Ms. Coleman (United States of America) said that Member States were collectively responsible for ensuring that United Nations peacekeeping operations were properly resourced to enable them to provide critical support for the maintenance of international peace and security. Her delegation remained a staunch supporter of peacekeeping and expressed its gratitude to peacekeeping personnel in the field and at Headquarters. She paid tribute to those peacekeepers who had lost their lives, including those recently killed while serving in the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali (MINUSMA).
76. She welcomed the consensus on the peacekeeping budget for 2016/17: it would enable effective mandate delivery and backstopping, including in support of force generation, safety and security, conduct and discipline, and human rights, while realizing efficiencies. The reduction of almost 5 per cent in the budget from 2014/15 responsibly reflected the decreasing deployment of uniformed personnel. She noted the adoption, for the second year in a row, of a draft resolution on cross-cutting issues providing strategic guidance on the financial and budgetary policies governing peacekeeping activities. In particular, the draft resolution underscored the need for administrative reform to enable more flexible, rapid and agile mandate delivery, particularly in the light of the increasingly complex and dangerous environments in which peacekeepers operated.
77. Guided by the principle that even one substantiated case of sexual exploitation and abuse was one too many, her delegation welcomed the consensus
on additional measures to combat sexual abuse. The Committee's decisions, including its approval of the transfer of withheld payments in substantiated cases to the Trust Fund in Support of Victims of Sexual Exploitation and Abuse, demonstrated its determination to improve the Organization's ability to prevent and respond to such cases on the basis of a victim-centred approach. To that end, Member States and the Secretary-General were working together to enhance transparency and strengthen accountability mechanisms.
78. The Committee had considered several issues beyond the scope of the agenda items normally taken up at the second part of the resumed session. Bearing in mind the recommendations by the High-level Independent Panel on Peace Operations and the Advisory Group of Experts on the Review of the Peacebuilding Architecture and the call in Security Council resolution 1325 (2000) for the strengthening of the Organization's conflict prevention and mediation capacities, the additional posts approved for the Department of Political Affairs would provide necessary support to its regional divisions and the Policy and Mediation Division.
79. Her delegation looked forward to more extensive discussion of proposals for supporting implementation of the 2030 Agenda and the Addis Ababa Action Agenda at the seventy-first session. Lastly, given the ever-increasing workload at the second part of the resumed session, the issue of the conflicting schedules of the Fifth Committee and the Committee for Programme and Coordination should be addressed.
80. Mr. Kandeel (Egypt) welcomed the adoption, for the second consecutive year, of a draft resolution on cross-cutting issues, in which the General Assembly had demonstrated its commitment to enforcing a policy of zero tolerance of sexual exploitation and abuse, and, in particular, to supporting victims, and to ensuring full accountability and bringing perpetrators to justice. Member States had agreed on measures to improve cooperation with the Secretariat, address the root causes and risk factors contributing to sexual abuse, and ensure transparency in the reporting of such abuse by United Nations and non-United Nations troops alike.
81. The approval of the draft resolution attested to the Assembly's ability to achieve consensus and issue specific guidance aimed at eradicating sexual abuse in
16-09847
11/12
A/C.5/70/SR.39
peacekeeping missions. The comprehensive and evenhanded approach taken by Member States demonstrated their intent to ensure that cases of sexual abuse and exploitation were confined to the past, an endeavour to which his delegation was strongly committed.
82. The Chair said that the efficiency of the Committee's work at the second part of the resumed session reflected the flexibility and cooperation of all members, particularly agenda item coordinators, who, despite being lead negotiators on a number of substantive agenda items, had often voluntarily assumed coordinating responsibilities for additional items. The Committee's success was the product of the diligence and spirit of compromise and consensus shown by all those who had contributed, directly or indirectly, to its work.
83. While the Committee had achieved many of its goals, scope for further progress remained. Committee members had, nonetheless, contributed to an exemplary culture of rigorous negotiation on sensitive matters. While the work of the Fifth Committee posed unique challenges, its strength lay in its commitment to forging ahead by necessity and force of will to achieve consensus on issues with implications for the entire United Nations system. Given the perennially heavy workload at the second part of the resumed session, which had entailed approval of a peacekeeping budget of some $8 billion for 2016/17, as well as adoption of other decisions directly affecting people on the ground, addressing all items during the time allotted was a challenge. The precedents that the Committee had set at the current session would benefit its future work. He paid tribute to United Nations peacekeepers and Headquarters staff for their tireless work in support of international peace and security.
84. He declared that the Fifth Committee had completed its work at the second part of the resumed seventieth session of the General Assembly.
The meeting rose at 5.15 p.m.
12/12
16-09847