United Nations
A/C.5/68/SR.22
General Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
Official Records
Distr.: General 8 January 2014
Original: English
Fifth Committee
Summary record of the 22nd meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Tuesday, 10 December 2013, at 10 a.m.
Chair: Mr. Taalas (Finland)
Chair of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions: Mr. Ruiz Massieu
Contents
Agenda item 144: Financing of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Genocide and Other Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of Rwanda and Rwandan Citizens Responsible for Genocide and Other Such Violations Committed in the Territory of Neighbouring States between 1 January and 31 December 1994
Agenda item 145: Financing of the International Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of the Former Yugoslavia since 1991
Agenda item 146: Financing of the International Residual Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals
Agenda item 134: Proposed programme budget for the biennium 2014-2015 (continued)
Progress on the implementation of recommendations related to strengthening information and systems security across the Secretariat
Limited budgetary discretion
Revised estimates resulting from the decisions contained in General Assembly resolution 67/290, entitled “Format and organizational aspects of the highlevel political forum on sustainable development”
Request for a subvention to the Extraordinary Chambers in the Courts of Cambodia
Programme budget implications of draft resolution A/C.1/68/L.37: Developments in the field of information and telecommunications in the context of international security
This record is subject to correction. Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Control Unit (srcorrections@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
A/C.5/68/SR.22
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 144: Financing of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Genocide and Other Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of Rwanda and Rwandan Citizens Responsible for Genocide and Other Such Violations Committed in the Territory of Neighbouring States between 1 January and 31 December 1994 (A/68/494, A/68/579 and A/68/642)
Agenda item 145: Financing of the International Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of the Former Yugoslavia since 1991 (A/68/386, A/68/582 and A/68/642)
Agenda item 146: Financing of the International Residual Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals
(A/68/491, A/68/594 and A/68/642)
1. Ms. Casar (Controller), introducing the proposed budget for the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda for the biennium 2014-2015 (A/68/494), said that it took into account the Tribunal's completion strategy as outlined in a report to the Security Council (S/2013/310). During the biennium 2014-2015, the Tribunal's main activities would be the completion of appeals, the transfer of records to the archives of the International Residual Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals, the translation of judicial records, the provision of judicial and administrative support to the Mechanism, and residual administrative operations. The overall resources for the biennium amounted to $80,877,600, reflecting a decrease of around $94.3 million, or 53.8 per cent, compared to the 2012-2013 resources. The Tribunal proposed to retain 306 temporary posts until December 2014 and 95 temporary posts thereafter and to abolish 321 posts, or 77 per cent of the current authorized staffing level.
2. Introducing the Tribunal's second performance report for the biennium 2012-2013 (A/68/579), she said that the Secretary-General proposed a final appropriation of $166,921,200, which reflected a decrease of around $2.5 million compared to the revised appropriation for the biennium. The net decrease was the result of a reduction of $2.9 million due to changes in exchange rates and a reduction of some $6.6 million in post incumbency and other
changes, partially offset by additional requirements of $7 million due to inflation.
3. Introducing the proposed budget for the International Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia for the biennium 2014-2015 (A/68/386), she said that the proposal was based on four main planning assumptions, namely, the completion of two of the last three trials; the completion of eight of the last nine cases on appeal; the transfer of substantive activities to the Residual Mechanism; and the establishment of an initial core administrative capacity in the Mechanism. The overall resource requirements for the Tribunal amounted to $170,160,300, reflecting a decrease of around $87.6 million, or 34 per cent, compared with the 2012-2013 resources. The Tribunal proposed to retain 506 temporary posts until December 2014 and 379 temporary posts thereafter and to abolish 167 posts, or 30 per cent of the current authorized staffing table of 546. It also proposed to abolish gradually, over the biennium, 156 positions funded under general temporary assistance.
4. Introducing the Tribunal's second performance report for the biennium 2012-2013 (A/68/582), she said that the Secretary-General proposed a final appropriation of $247,260,800, which reflected a decrease in requirements of around $4.5 million compared to the revised appropriation for the biennium. The overall decrease resulted from a reduction of $9.2 million in post incumbency and other charges, partially offset by additional requirements of $1.7 million owing to changes in exchange rates and an increase of $3.0 million due to inflation.
5. Turning to the proposed budget for the International Residual Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals for the biennium 2014-2015 (A/68/491), she said that the Mechanism had two branches, one in Arusha and one in The Hague, which had begun functioning on 1 July 2012 and 1 July 2013, respectively. During the biennium 2014-2015, the Mechanism would work with the two Tribunals to further develop its procedures and ensure the transfer of functions. The resource requirements for the Mechanism were estimated at $103,581,900, reflecting an increase of around $52.5 million. A total of 126 posts were proposed, compared to 67 posts in 20122013, reflecting the establishment of 29 posts that had previously been funded by the two Tribunals under double-hatting arrangements and 30 posts for administrative functions - 17 in Arusha and 13 in The Hague.
2/8
13-61162
A/C.5/68/SR.22
6. In the Mechanism's second performance report for the biennium 2012-2013 (A/68/594), the SecretaryGeneral proposed a final appropriation of $18,078,700, reflecting a decrease of around $33 million as compared to the revised appropriation for the biennium. The overall decrease resulted from a reduction of $33.5 million in post incumbency and other changes, and a decrease of $0.6 million due to changes in exchange rates, partially offset by an increase of $1.1 million due to inflation.
7. Mr. Ruiz Massieu (Chair of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions), introducing the related report of the Advisory Committee (A/68/642), said that, with respect to the second performance reports of the two Tribunals and the International Residual Mechanism, the Advisory Committee recommended that the General Assembly should approve the proposed final appropriations for the biennium 2012-2013.
8. With respect to the proposed budgets for the biennium 2014-2015, the Advisory Committee recommended approval of the proposed requirements for the Tribunals and the Residual Mechanism. It also recommended that any cost savings resulting from the revised travel policy approved by General Assembly resolution 67/254 should be reflected in the relevant performance reports.
9. For the Residual Mechanism, the Advisory Committee recommended that the Assembly should request the Secretary-General to expedite the completion of the construction project and to provide an update no later than the first part of the resumed sixty-eighth session.
10. Mr. Thomson (Fiji), speaking on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, said that in the informal consultations the Group would seek details about the variances in the revised appropriations for the Tribunals for the biennium 2012-2013, and about the Tribunals' completion strategies and transition to the Residual Mechanism. With respect to the budget proposals for the Tribunals for the biennium 2014-2015, he noted that in each case the reduced requirements were mainly attributed to Chambers, the Office of the Prosecutor, the Registry, and records management and archives. The Group had noted the proposed staff changes for both Tribunals and the high vacancy rate in the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda, and would be interested to know about the assumptions that lay behind some of
the changes proposed for the International Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia and how they related to those for the other Tribunal.
11. On the proposed resource requirements for the International Residual Mechanism for the biennium 2014-2015, the Group would seek greater detail about the proposed post and non-post resources. He welcomed the signing of a headquarters agreement between the United Nations and the Government of the United Republic of Tanzania for the Arusha branch and noted that the negotiations for the Hague branch had yet to be concluded. He encouraged the SecretaryGeneral to take all necessary measures to ensure that a dedicated team was in place to facilitate the conclusion of the agreement as a matter of priority.
12. The Group was pleased to note the progress achieved in the construction of the Arusha branch and that the project was on time and on schedule; it would like to receive updates on the procurement of architectural consultancy services, the status of contract negotiations and the efforts to further shorten the duration of the project. Senior leadership oversight of that and all other overseas capital projects was extremely important.
13. Mr. Coffi (Cote d'Ivoire), speaking on behalf of the Group of African States, said that, in the matter of the second performance reports of the Tribunals and the Residual Mechanism, the Group would examine the variances as they related to the respective mandates, including the implementation of completion strategies by the Tribunals and the transition to the Mechanism and national jurisdictions. With respect to the budget proposals for 2014-2015, the Group would seek clarification on such matters as the retention of key personnel, recruitment and the mechanism for providing opportunities in other United Nations entities for outgoing staff.
14. The Group welcomed the signing of the headquarters agreement for the Arusha branch; it was to be hoped that an agreement for the Hague branch would be concluded soon. The timely completion of the construction project in Arusha was crucial in order to avoid a cost overrun. Accountability and oversight, both in the field and at Headquarters, were highly important; the Group would seek further information on the matter in informal consultations. He expressed gratitude to the Governments of the United Republic of Tanzania and the Netherlands for their continued support for the work of the Tribunals and the Residual Mechanism.
13-61162
3/8
A/C.5/68/SR.22
Agenda item 134: Proposed programme budget for the biennium 2014-2015 (continued)
Progress on the implementation of recommendations related to strengthening information and systems security across the Secretariat (A/68/7/Add.11 and A/68/552)
Limited budgetary discretion (A/68/7/Add.9 and A/68/490)
Revised estimates resulting from the decisions contained in General Assembly resolution 67/290 entitled “Format and organizational aspects of the high-level political forum on sustainable development” (A/68/7/Add.14, A/68/365 and A/68/365/Add.1)
Request for a subvention to the Extraordinary Chambers in the Courts of Cambodia (A/68/7/Add.12 and A/68/532)
Programme budget implications of draft resolution A/C.1/68/L.37: Developments in the field of information and telecommunications in the context of international security (A/68/7/Add.13; A/C.5/68/14)
15. Mr. Takasu (Under-Secretary-General for Management), introducing the Secretary-General's progress report on the implementation of recommendations related to strengthening information and systems security across the Secretariat (A/68/552), said that, taking into consideration the recommendations of the Board of Auditors in document A/67/651, the Secretariat was implementing an action plan to address the most urgent information security shortcomings within existing resources. In the previous months, the Secretariat had issued an information security policy directive to heads of departments and offices; strengthened preventive controls and limited administrative privileges; acquired additional filtering systems for e-mail and Internet traffic; introduced additional firewalls with more advanced technology; and developed a computer-based training course to raise awareness on information security among staff.
16. The initiatives had been taken in close collaboration with information and communications
technology (ICT) units within the Secretariat; in addition, the Secretariat had contributed to collaboration on the matter among United Nations system organizations. The training and guidance on minimum security requirements for public websites were based on common recommendations by the system-wide Information Security Special Interest Group. The Office of Information and Communications Technology had reprioritized its activities and spent
more than $1.3 million of its resources under the programme budget for the biennium 2012-2013 to purchase filtering, monitoring and intrusion detection tools. It had also redeployed staff internally to carry out the work. However, those resources had been insufficient to address all the weaknesses identified.
17. An independent technical assessment had been undertaken in July 2013 to determine the Secretariat's information security needs. That assessment, as well as security breaches that had occurred in 2013 and evidence of increased threats to communications and data, had led to the conclusion that the Organization remained exposed to an unacceptable level of risk and therefore that additional protection measures were urgently needed. Because of the sensitive and confidential nature of the related information, the Chief Information Technology Officer would brief the Committee in informal consultations.
18. The Secretariat must develop comprehensive information security measures and institutional and financial arrangements for their deployment, within the context of the overall review of the ICT strategy and operation. The outcome of that review would be presented to the Assembly at its sixty-ninth session; the current proposed action, for which additional resources were needed, were interim measures that must be implemented expeditiously. Accordingly, the Assembly was requested to approve an additional appropriation of $3,440,700 for the first 12 months of the biennium 20142015 to allow for additional security measures, including expanded coverage by the intrusion detection service, an upgrade of the firewall infrastructure and the filtering of Internet traffic for duty stations away from Headquarters. The Secretariat was committed to protecting the Organization against any threat of cyberattack.
19. Ms. Casar (Controller), introducing the Secretary-General's report on limited budgetary discretion (A/68/490), recalled that the Assembly, in its resolution 60/283, had decided to authorize, on an experimental basis, limited discretion for the SecretaryGeneral to enter into commitments of up to $20 million in each of the bienniums 2006-2007 and 2008-2009 for positions and non-post requirements in order to meet the Organization's evolving needs in implementing mandated programmes and activities. The discretion was limited to a total of $6 million per biennium under the sole authority of the Secretary-General; any amounts in excess of that level required submission to the Advisory Committee on Administrative and
4/8
13-61162
A/C.5/68/SR.22
Budgetary Questions. The Assembly had extended the arrangements for the subsequent bienniums.
20. Having analysed the experience of the previous three bienniums, the Secretary-General had found that there was value in the limited budgetary discretion mechanism, which allowed a speedy response in addressing evolving needs for which resources would not otherwise be available. Although he had not had recourse to the discretionary authority in 2012-2013, the Secretary-General saw merit in retaining it, and therefore proposed no changes to the mechanism. He would continue to assess its use during the biennium 2014-2015, which would allow for further refinement and justification of any future proposed changes to the parameters. The action requested of the Assembly was presented in chapter VI of the report.
21. Introducing the Secretary-General's report on the revised estimates resulting from the decisions contained in General Assembly resolution 67/290, entitled “Format and organizational aspects of the high-level political forum on sustainable development” (A/68/365), said that estimated additional resources of $741,800 would be required under section 9, Economic and social affairs, of the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2014-2015.
22. Subsequent to the issuance of that report, the Assembly had adopted resolution 68/1, the annex to which contained provisions on the meetings of the Economic and Social Council; the resource requirements had been revised accordingly and were set out in an addendum to the initial report (A/68/365/Add.1). The revised additional resources amounted to $754,600 under section 9, Economic and social affairs, of the proposed programme budget for the biennium 20142015. That would represent a charge against the contingency fund and would therefore require an additional appropriation of $754,600 for the biennium.
23. Turning to the Secretary-General's report on the request for a subvention to the Extraordinary Chambers in the Courts of Cambodia (A/68/532), she said that the 2012 progress report on the Extraordinary Chambers (A/67/380), submitted to the Third Committee, had highlighted the acute financial shortfall they faced and the risk of financial failure. The precarious financial situation had not changed since that time, prompting the Secretary-General to submit the current report (A/68/532) to the Fifth Committee seeking a subvention that would provide fiscal stability and allow the Chambers to issue staff contracts rather than limited three-month contracts
and to meet all operational costs. Since the issuance of the report, the Secretary-General had held a pledging conference in November 2013 at which new contributions of $2.9 million had been announced for the international component; no donor contributions had been pledged for the national component.
24. The Secretary-General sought the Assembly's approval for funding of up to $51.1 million for the period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2015 to supplement the financial resources of the Extraordinary Chambers and enable them to fulfil their mandate. He proposed that an amount of $24.8 million should be appropriated for 2014 under the proposed programme budget for 2014-2015 and that a subvention of up to $26.3 million for 2015 should be considered at the main part of the sixty-ninth session. The SecretaryGeneral also sought the Assembly's approval for the United Nations to use its discretion to provide reimbursable loans to the Government of Cambodia from the subvention of up to $4.6 million in 2014 and up to $4.2 million in 2015.
25. Introducing the statement of budgetary implications of draft resolution A/C.1/68/L.37 on developments in the field of information and telecommunications in the context of international security (A/C.5/68/14), she said that the draft resolution called for the establishment of a group of governmental experts to examine potential threats to the information sphere and cooperative measures to address them. The First Committee had been advised of the programme budget implications in document A/C.1/68/L.54. The statement currently before the Fifth Committee (A/C.5/68/14) envisaged estimated additional resource requirements of $1,439,400 for the biennium 20142015, including $654,300 under section 2, General Assembly and Economic and Social Council affairs and conference management, and $785,100 under section 4, Disarmament, in order to implement the activities called for in paragraph 4 of the draft resolution. That would represent a charge against the contingency fund and would therefore require additional appropriations of $1,439,400 for the biennium 2014-2015.
26. Mr. Ruiz Massieu (Chair of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions), introducing the report of the Advisory Committee on progress on the implementation of recommendations related to strengthening information and systems security across the Secretariat (A/68/7/Add.11), said that the Advisory Committee had noted the progress made,
13-61162
5/8
A/C.5/68/SR.22
particularly the issuance of a security directive. Taking into account the Secretary-General's statements that the Organization's fragmented ICT network made it more difficult and costly to ensure information security, that an attack or intrusion anywhere in the network could lead to a compromise everywhere and that security measures must be implemented at all duty stations, the Advisory Committee emphasized the need for a common, enterprise-wide approach to information and systems security in order to avoid duplication of efforts or spending in that area.
27. The Advisory Committee recommended that the Assembly should request the Secretary-General to ensure that the medium- and long-term information security strategy to be presented at its sixty-ninth session was based on common policies and tools and addressed the fragmentation of the information security environment in the most cost-effective and efficient manner possible. It reiterated that the Secretary-General should take prompt remedial action to address any hindrances to the effective promulgation and enforcement of common information security policies throughout the Secretariat.
28. In addition, the Advisory Committee recommended that the Assembly should request the Secretary-General to apportion the related resource requirements on the basis of the same cost-sharing arrangement that applied to the financing of the Umoja enterprise resource planning project. It encouraged the Secretary-General to continue to pursue system-wide collaboration and explore all options for further cooperation and sharing of information security solutions among United Nations system organizations.
29. With regard to the additional resources requested for the biennium 2014-2015, the Advisory Committee recommended that the Assembly should request the Secretary-General to accommodate any additional requirements for temporary assistance and staff travel from within the resources provided for in the proposed programme budget for the biennium and to report in the relevant performance report on any additional expenditures required under contractual services or furniture and equipment.
30. Turning to the Advisory Committee's report on limited budgetary discretion (A/68/7/Add.9), he said that, in its consideration of the Secretary-General's proposals, the Advisory Committee had noted that the limited discretion of $20 million per biennium had never been fully utilized. It also emphasized that that
discretion must be exercised in accordance with the nine principles outlined by the Assembly in its resolution 60/283. The Advisory Committee was of the view that there was a need to better define the circumstances in which use of the discretion was most appropriate and that clearer criteria would ensure a more consistent approach to its use.
31. Introducing the Advisory Committee's report on the revised estimates resulting from the decisions contained in General Assembly resolution 67/290, entitled “Format and organizational aspects of the high-level political forum on sustainable development” (A/68/7/Add.14), he said that the Advisory Committee had no objection to the Secretary-General's request for additional resources in the amount of $0.7 million to implement the resolution. However, the Advisory Committee was concerned that the Secretary-General had followed an exceptional procedure in presenting the statement of programme budget implications of the draft resolution that had preceded it, since that statement had been presented to the Assembly without first being considered by the Fifth Committee under rule 153 of the Assembly's rules of procedure. The Advisory Committee had been informed that, subsequent to the adoption of resolution 67/290, the statement of budget implications had been reformatted into the present report on revised estimates. The Secretary-General should ensure in the future that all statements of programme budget implications were presented to the Fifth Committee in accordance with the procedure established by rule 153.
32. He then introduced the Advisory Committee's report on the request for a subvention of up to $51.1 million from the regular budget to the Extraordinary Chambers in the Courts of Cambodia (A/68/7/Add.12). Given that both the international and national components of the Chambers had to date been funded from voluntary sources, the Advisory Committee had never previously expressed an opinion on the level of its proposed budget or staffing levels. Because the Secretary-General had presented a request for a subvention rather than a full-fledged budget proposal, the Advisory Committee had not made any observations on the resource requirements of the Chambers during its review.
33. The Advisory Committee noted with concern the adverse cash position of the Extraordinary Chambers and its steadily worsening financial situation over the course of the previous 18 months. It was a matter of
6/8
13-61162
A/C.5/68/SR.22
concern that the funding shortfall was only now being brought to the attention of the Fifth Committee. The Advisory Committee recommended that the SecretaryGeneral should be requested to intensify his efforts to obtain additional voluntary contributions, including by broadening the donor base. It also expected that the Chambers would intensify their efforts to identify savings and efficiencies and recommended that a funding plan beyond 2014-2015 should be developed, based on a workload forecast for the timely completion of the three remaining cases and a disciplined casemanagement methodology.
34. In addition, the Advisory Committee recommended that the General Assembly should examine the financing of the Chambers for 2015 and beyond; it would be for the Assembly to decide, as a matter of policy, whether to finance their future activities through a different funding source. As a bridging arrangement for 2014 and to ensure their continued operation, the Advisory Committee recommended that the Assembly should authorize the Secretary-General to enter into commitments not to exceed $12.4 million, pending the Assembly's consideration of the Chambers' future financing arrangements. Should voluntary contributions in excess of the remaining requirements for 2014 be received, the regular budget funds should be refunded to the Organization.
35. More broadly, the Advisory Committee recalled its previous comments concerning the difficulty of sustaining voluntary contributions to finance the type of judicial proceedings in question; lessons should be derived from such experiences and applied to future international tribunals and courts.
36. Lastly, introducing the Advisory Committee's report on the programme budget implications of draft resolution A/C.1/68/L.37 (A/68/7/Add.13), he said that the additional resource requirements related to a group of governmental experts to be established in 2014 to study how international law applied to the use of information and communications technologies by States; the group would report to the Assembly at its seventieth session. The Advisory Committee had no objection to the additional resource requirements of $1.4 million indicated by the Secretary-General.
37. Mr. Thomson (Fiji) speaking on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, said that, on the matter of the Secretary-General's limited budgetary discretion, the Group would seek more comprehensive information on
the discretionary authority in order to evaluate the need to continue the experiment.
38. The Group shared the Advisory Committee's concerns about the adverse cash position of the Extraordinary Chambers in the Courts of Cambodia; it was regrettable that voluntary contributions had been insufficient to meet the Chambers' needs in the previous 18 months. The steadily worsening financial situation was undermining the Chambers' operations and the implementation of their programme of work. The Group therefore supported the proposal for a subvention and urged the Secretary-General to intensify his efforts to obtain additional voluntary contributions to fund the Chambers' future activities.
39. On the issue of strengthening information and systems security, the Group had noted the SecretaryGeneral's plan to address the most urgent shortcomings and supported the provision of the resources required for its implementation. A comprehensive security strategy was essential in order to protect the Organization against security breaches and the interception of communications. The issue was related to the broader discussion about information security in general; in that connection, the Group was in favour of approving the necessary resources for the implementation of draft resolution A/C.1/68/L.37 in order to support the work of the group of governmental experts established to study threats in the area of information security and measures to address them.
40. All mandates approved by intergovernmental bodies of the United Nations, particularly those related to development, must receive predictable and adequate funding. The United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20 Conference) had been a seminal moment for the multilateral system. Its outcome document, entitled “The future we want”, had highlighted Member States' common commitment to sustained and inclusive economic growth, social development and environmental protection, aimed at achieving a just, equitable and inclusive world. Those objectives were dear to the Group of 77 and China, and reflected the principles set out in the 1964 Joint Declaration of the Seventy-seven developing countries. The Group supported the provision of all necessary resources to the High-Level Political Forum on Sustainable Development, which had been established at the Rio+20 Conference to provide political leadership in order to further enhance international cooperation on sustainable development, ensure the
13-61162
7/8
A/C.5/68/SR.22
comprehensive implementation of the Rio+20 mandates and follow up on the fulfilment of commitments on sustainable development.
41. Mr. AlThweekh (Kuwait) said that the magnitude of current global challenges made it imperative for the United Nations to scale up its efforts to meet them. Clearly defined appropriations were needed to support the Organization's future activities and programmes. His delegation supported the Secretary-General's approach to the development of the programme budget because it addressed gaps and changing needs in all budget sections. The proposed budget and the payment by Member States of all their assessed contributions and arrears were closely linked. All Members had a duty to pay their assessments in full in order to enable the Organization to implement its programmes and activities efficiently; his Government had made payment in full, on time and without conditions.
42. Development activities should be accorded due priority when preparing the budget outline and the Assembly should approve sufficient funding to achieve the purposes of the United Nations, particularly the elimination of poverty and support for the development agenda. The budget process afforded an opportunity for Member States to ensure the Organization's smooth operation, so that the Secretary-General was able to fulfil the mandates entrusted to him and services were provided for the intergovernmental process.
43. Mr. Nay (Cambodia), referring to the SecretaryGeneral's report on the request for a subvention to the Extraordinary Chambers in the Courts of Cambodia (A/68/532), said that the Extraordinary Chambers were a hybrid court in which national and foreign judges and legal officers worked side by side. Since becoming operational in 2006, the Chambers had achieved substantial progress. In 2012, they had concluded proceedings in the case against Kaing Guek Eav, the former head of the Tuol Sleng detention centre, where some 15,000 people had been detained, tortured and executed; he had been found guilty of war crimes and crimes against humanity and been sentenced to life imprisonment. The case currently before the Trial Chamber, which involved the surviving senior leaders of the Khmer Rouge regime, had been called the most significant case in international legal history. The successful conclusion of the first phase had been widely welcomed and the Chamber's judgment was expected in mid-2014.
44. Unfortunately, the Extraordinary Chambers had faced continuous financial crisis, particularly in respect of the payment of salaries for national staff. The Government of Cambodia had fulfilled its commitments by contributing $20 million - approximately 10 per cent of total expenditure - in cash and in kind. With its recent provision of an additional $1.8 million to fill the funding gap from September 2013 to the end of the year, Cambodia had become the third largest donor to the Chambers after Japan and Australia.
45. Expressing gratitude to the international community for supporting the national and international components of the Extraordinary Chambers, he said that, unfortunately, voluntary contributions no longer covered their operating expenditures. The persistent financial insecurity would jeopardize the judicial proceedings and the fulfilment of the Chambers' mandate. A subvention that covered both international and national components, including the salaries of national staff, would be vital for the effective functioning of the Chambers. The reimbursable loan for the national component would be repaid once that component was fully funded by donors.
46. Mr. Onuma (Japan) said that his delegation welcomed the achievements of the Extraordinary Chambers, which would help the Cambodian people come to terms with their tragic history, bring justice and enhance the rule of law. His Government had actively supported the peace process in Cambodia, which was reaching its culmination. The serious financial difficulties faced by the Chambers should be addressed and therefore the Secretary-General's proposal for a subvention merited consideration. However, in view of the prolonged nature of the trials held to date, the Secretariat and the Extraordinary Chambers should also establish a strategy that would enable the Chambers to complete their work more efficiently and effectively while also ensuring fair and impartial trials and preventing impunity.
The meeting rose at 11.35 a.m.
8/8
13-61162