United Nations
A/C.5/68/SR.38
General Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
Official Records
Distr.: General 15 July 2014
Original: English
Fifth Committee
Summary record of the 38th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Friday, 9 May 2014, at 10 a.m.
Chair: Mr. Taalas (Finland)
Chair of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions: Mr. Ruiz Massieu
Contents
Agenda item 147: Administrative and budgetary aspects of the financing of the United Nations peacekeeping operations (continued)
Implementation of General Assembly resolution 67/261: Rates of reimbursement to troop-contributing countries
Agenda item 156: Financing of the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo
Agenda item 165: Financing of the activities arising from Security Council resolution 1863 (2009)
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Control Unit (srcorrections@un.org), and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-04128 (E)
in i ii ii ii wmwmv
Please recycle
A/C.5/68/SR.38
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 147: Administrative and budgetary aspects of the financing of the United Nations peacekeeping operations (continued)
Implementation of General Assembly resolution
67/261: Rates of reimbursement to troop-
contributing countries (A/68/813 and A/68/859)
1. Mr. Ladsous (Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations), introducing the report of the Secretary-General on the results of the revised survey to establish the standard rate of reimbursement to troop-contributing countries, as approved by the General Assembly in its resolution 67/261 on the report of the Senior Advisory Group on rates of reimbursement to troop-contributing countries (A/68/813), said that as peacekeeping operations had become more diverse, uniformed personnel, the backbone of those operations, were required to perform a range of functions that often went beyond traditional monitoring and patrolling. They were increasingly charged with complex mandates, frequently in partnership with other regional and national actors, in environments that were ever more violent and hostile. The report of the Senior Advisory Group had recognized that complexity and diversity, and, by its resolution 67/261, the General Assembly had adopted a set of measures to address a number of systemic issues related to reimbursement, and had put in place a new framework for reimbursing troop- and police-contributing countries. The report documented the main actions taken by the Secretariat to implement the resolution and to enable the Assembly to take decisions on the rate of reimbursement to troop- and police-contributing countries and other related issues. The Secretariat valued the trust and openness demonstrated by the countries that had participated in the survey on troop costs, and had done everything in its power to maintain the confidentiality of the process and data.
2. Troop- and police-contributing countries were expected to meet the standards set by the Organization, including those set out in the United Nations Infantry Battalion Manual, the soon-to-be-issued revised medical standards, and predeployment training requirements. United Nations peacekeeping operations would continue to evolve in response to changing global dynamics and patterns of conflict, and the Organization would continue to count on troop- and police-contributing countries to respond to and adapt to those changes. The
new survey methodology, approved by the General Assembly, recognized that troop- and policecontributing countries would have to invest in order to meet those expectations and standards. It also reflected the fact that the composition of peacekeeping contingents had evolved to address the nature and impact of conflict, in particular on women and children, with increasing requirements for specialization and for female troops. The report therefore included information on the specific costs related to deploying female personnel, and recognized wider efforts to increase women's participation in all peace and security activities.
3. The Organization was mindful that Member States, for a variety of reasons, contributed their troops and police to peacekeeping operations voluntarily. The report noted the positive benefits for troops and national armed forces associated with United Nations peacekeeping service. Nevertheless, countries that put their vital national resources at the service of the United Nations were making a contribution to international peace and security, without which there would be no peacekeeping.
4. While the main focus of the report was the results of the survey, it also examined the processes and considerations for awarding the new premium payments. With regard to the risk premium, the premium should not be awarded simply for taking risks; rather, it was intended to recognize excellent and exceptional performance by units that acquitted themselves well in challenging circumstances. It would be awarded on an exceptional basis only and would not be paid to any unit operating with caveats or restrictions. Before the premium was awarded, a rigorous and transparent review, supported by documented evidence, would be conducted at four levels, both in the field and at Headquarters. Units awarded the risk premium would also receive a letter of commendation and a special clasp to be worn on the United Nations medal, as the premium was not a financial reward for bravery.
5. In establishing the procedure for awarding the premium for key enabling capacities, the Secretariat had noted that the early identification and rapid deployment of enablers and force multipliers must be part of the pre-mission planning process. On too many occasions, the optimistic start-up timetables of difficult missions in austere operating environments had foundered because the necessary enablers had not been in place. Offering an additional incentive for rapid
2/12
14-04128
A/C.5/68/SR.38
deployment through the reimbursement framework would address some of those systemic challenges. As the implementation of the premiums would require new approaches and processes, their application would be closely reviewed and their financial and operational impact carefully assessed.
6. When it approved the Senior Advisory Group's recommendations, the General Assembly had not requested the Secretary-General to make a recommendation on the actual rate of reimbursement. The data in the report were presented to assist the General Assembly in making that decision. The report provided a snapshot of the costs incurred by the sample countries during March 2013, and the revised survey methodology had yielded more detailed information on such costs than the General Assembly had had in over 14 years. When the previous survey had been conducted in 1996, the Organization had not had a policy for the protection of civilians, nor had there been formed police units, both of which were now fundamental to the effectiveness of peacekeeping operations. In 1996, the number of uniformed peacekeeping personnel had totalled 25,000; today, they numbered over 97,000. Yet the system for reimbursing for uniformed personnel had not fundamentally changed since 1974. While changes in the reimbursement system might prove challenging, they offered an opportunity to enhance the peacekeeping partnership and to improve the effectiveness of peacekeeping operations.
7. Ms. Haq (Under-Secretary-General for Field Support) said that the revised survey methodology had been designed to address the lack of predictability in the current personnel reimbursement framework. That lack of predictability, together with the length of time between reviews, meant that personnel reimbursement did not reflect the changing demands of peacekeeping or the changing composition and structure of troop and police contributions, nor could it adjust to changing financial realities and economic shifts, such as inflation, economic growth or the relative strength of different economies. The revised methodology had, however, already yielded results.
8. The General Assembly's consensus approval of the Senior Advisory Group's recommendations indicated the importance of the reimbursement framework to the many different aspects of peacekeeping, a matter of concern to all Member States. Those recommendations recognized that if the reimbursement system was to be sustainable, it must be based on actual data on the
common and essential additional costs incurred in deploying uniformed personnel to United Nations peacekeeping missions. The primary objective of the methodology approved by the General Assembly was to ensure that empirical data would be available to the Assembly when reviewing the reimbursement rate.
9. Following the revised methodology, the data in the report covered the actual costs incurred during a specific deployment period, namely March 2013, common to the 10 sample troop- and policecontributing countries, thus providing greater detail than previous surveys and allowing for more precise analysis. Those 10 countries, selected on the basis of the proportion they represented of overall troop contributions, had contributed 57 per cent of all uniformed personnel over the three years between 2010 and 2012, and fell into four broad income categories: one high, two upper middle, four lower middle and three low. Through an interactive process, the survey had collected data on five categories of common, additional and essential costs incurred by the sample countries in contributing uniformed personnel to United Nations peacekeeping operations: allowances; personal kit and equipment, including weaponry; inland transportation; predeployment medical; and United Nations-specific predeployment training. The current personnel reimbursement rate did not take the last three categories into consideration. The report did not make a recommendation on what the rate of reimbursement to contributing countries should be, that being a decision for the General Assembly.
10. The Senior Advisory Group had stressed the need for confidentiality in the handling and presentation of the data. The Secretariat had therefore assured the sample countries, which she thanked for participating in such an important and challenging exercise, that their data would not be identified and that the confidentiality of the data had been and would continue to be protected.
11. In addition to the survey data, the report also provided an update on other aspects of the new reimbursement framework, including premiums. While premium payments would be made on an exceptional basis only, they constituted a new, authorized financial obligation, and adequate resources would be required. The Secretary-General therefore proposed to establish a dedicated fund for those payments, within the overall financial ceiling approved by the General Assembly.
14-04128
3/12
A/C.5/68/SR.38
12. In its resolution 67/261, the General Assembly had approved proportional deductions from personnel reimbursement in respect of major equipment that was absent or non-functional over two quarterly reporting periods, as reflected in a rating of “unsatisfactory” in quarterly verification reports, thus acknowledging the fundamental link between personnel and equipment in enabling peacekeepers to carry out their mandated tasks. Careful consideration had been given to the definition of “unsatisfactory”, to ensure that it was not arbitrary. Peacekeepers must have the necessary equipment to perform their mandated tasks safely, securely and effectively. Account would thus be taken of the impact on operational effectiveness of non-functioning or absent equipment. The deduction would be applied to improve compliance with memorandums of understanding by ensuring that equipment specified in a such memorandums was in good working order and was relevant to the needs of the mission. In that connection, she trusted that the recommendation to rotate certain categories of equipment, contained in the report of the 2014 Working Group on Contingent-Owned Equipment (A/C.5/68/22), would have a positive impact.
13. Mr. Ruiz Massieu (Chair of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions), introducing the related report of the Advisory Committee (A/68/859), said that the Advisory Committee was of the view that the actions to be taken regarding the review of the rates of reimbursement to troop- and police-contributing countries and the establishment, funding and replenishment of a dedicated fund to finance the payment of premiums constituted policy matters to be decided by the General Assembly.
14. Ms. Rios Requena (Plurinational State of Bolivia), speaking on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, said that the Group had repeatedly expressed its serious concerns over the length of time that had elapsed since the previous survey of troop costs in 1996 and the subsequent ad hoc increase in reimbursement rates in 2002. As a result of that situation, troop-contributing countries bore a difficult financial burden that needed to be addressed. Moreover, given the significant increase in the number of United Nations peacekeeping missions and the ever more complex mandates and demanding operational scenarios, the General Assembly's decision to review reimbursement rates and to provide fair and equitable
compensation to troop- and police-contributing countries was not only essential to those countries but also to the sustainability of the peacekeeping partnership. The Committee had a historic opportunity to revitalize and strengthen the partnership between Member States and the Secretariat that underpinned the Organization's evolving peacekeeping role.
15. Thanking all the troop- and police-contributing countries that had participated in the survey and the Secretariat for upholding the principles that had guided it, especially confidentiality, she said that the Group would not accept the conduct of negotiations in the Committee in a way that undermined those principles. The new framework for troop reimbursement had been established after a long and difficult approval process, reflecting a delicate balance of interests. Troop- and police-contributing countries had made commitments in anticipation of a long overdue review of the reimbursement rate, to be carried out on the basis of data collected by the Secretariat, in accordance with the parameters decided by the General Assembly. That vote of confidence in the new system and the renewed peacekeeping partnership had been cast on the understanding that all parties would now honour the agreement, and that the integrity of the new methodology and framework would be preserved. Resolution 67/261 was underpinned by the recognition of such key considerations as the need for a predictable system for reviewing reimbursement; for new elements, such as predeployment training, to be integrated into the reimbursement system; and for those who were exposed to exceptional levels of risk and who provided key enabling capabilities to be rewarded.
16. Given the growing expectations surrounding peacekeeping operations, it was only fair that the hardship and sacrifice endured by personnel and the commitment of the countries that contributed to the advancement of the Charter goal of maintaining international peace and security should be recognized and supported, both financially and politically. The results of the survey clearly demonstrated the gap between the current reimbursement rate and the financial cost to troop-contributing countries. It was high time that the General Assembly took a decision on the matter and increased the standard rate of reimbursement for troop- and police-contributing countries accordingly. All the data requested by the General Assembly for an informed decision had been collected. The Group would not accept an interim or ad
4/12
14-04128
A/C.5/68/SR.38
hoc solution. After such a strenuous process, Member States could not shy away from their responsibility to increase the reimbursement rate. The full implementation of resolution 67/261 would be guaranteed only when the new rate was agreed.
17. Mr. Mihoubi (Algeria), speaking on behalf of the African Group, thanked the 10 representative Member States that had participated in the survey. He also thanked the Secretariat for having provided Member States with regular updates, for the transparency demonstrated and for preserving the confidentiality of the data collected.
18. As reimbursement rates had not increased significantly in the last 40 years and previous surveys had failed to provide adequate comparative data, it was essential to review the framework and provide impartial reimbursement to troop-contributing countries for expenses incurred in deploying troops, in uncertain operating environments and volatile political contexts, in the pursuit of stability, peace and security. The increasingly challenging nature of operations was putting the safety, security and well-being of peacekeepers in jeopardy. United Nations peacekeeping operations around the world would be unable to fulfil their mandates unless the efforts of troop-contributing countries were facilitated.
19. The survey had taken into account expense categories, namely inland transportation, predeployment medical, and predeployment training, which had not been considered previously, but were pertinent to the deployment of troops and vital to the long-term sustainability of peacekeeping operations. Troopcontributing countries were spending a great deal of money to ensure that troops were deployed with the proper training to deliver their mandates. A decision on the question of reimbursement rates would be beneficial to all involved. The Group would therefore reject any alternative solution and looked forward to a revised rate of reimbursement.
20. Ms. Power (Observer for the European Union), speaking also on behalf of the candidate countries Montenegro, Serbia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Turkey; the stabilization and association process countries Albania and Bosnia and Herzegovina; and, in addition, Ukraine, said that the revised survey process was a key aspect of the implementation of the Senior Advisory Group's recommendations, to which her delegation remained committed. She thanked the
Secretariat for its hard work, and the 10 Member States that had participated in the survey for their commitment and positive engagement in the process and for ensuring its timely completion.
21. The member States of the European Union had a specific interest in supporting strong and effective United Nations peacekeeping operations, as almost all of them were not only important financial contributors but also supported peacekeeping on the ground, both with uniformed personnel and other capabilities. They were therefore very conscious of the shared sense of responsibility and the clear benefits of participating actively in peacekeeping.
22. A political and operational commitment to peacekeeping required all Member States to ensure that they made the most effective contribution possible. The Committee must also bear in mind the potentially heavy budget implications, particularly when the peacekeeping budget was on course to reach a record high. Her delegation would raise technical questions on certain aspects of the survey, including the interpretation and processing of the data collected, in informal consultations. The ultimate goal remained the maintenance and reinforcement of the quality and sustainability of United Nations peacekeeping operations.
23. Mr. Ono (Japan) said that his delegation welcomed the successful conclusion of the survey conducted in accordance with General Assembly resolution 67/261, which had collected data from a representative sample of troop-contributing countries and had had a 100 per cent response rate.
24. Negotiations on the question of troop reimbursement rates should not be conducted in isolation, but as an integral part of discussion of the overall peacekeeping budget. As the peacekeeping budget for 2014/15 was likely to greatly exceed $8 billion, at a time when many Member States were facing extremely tight domestic financial situations, peacekeeping operations must be financed in a sustainable manner without compromising their respective mandates. While he recognized and understood the concerns expressed by many troopcontributing countries, a balance must be struck between a fair reimbursement for troops deployed and the financial sustainability of peacekeeping operations as a whole.
14-04128
5/12
A/C.5/68/SR.38
25. The Senior Advisory Group had made wellbalanced recommendations on reimbursement and the promotion of better conditions for troop performance. He welcomed the fact that the other two elements of resolution 67/261, regarding troop rotation and absent or non-functional major equipment, had also been addressed, and called for continued progress in that regard. All Member States should respect what had been agreed in the resolution.
26. In accordance with the resolution and the Senior Advisory Group's report, the Secretary-General had not presented the results of the new survey as a budgetary request; it was the sole prerogative of the General Assembly to decide on the reimbursement rate, based on the data collected by the survey. While his delegation valued the work of the survey team, including its country visits and the comprehensiveness of the data, it would like to know how the weighted average had been calculated and why the data presented showed high levels of variance, particularly with regard to allowances and United Nations-specific predeployment training.
27. Historically, the standard rates of reimbursement had not fully compensated troop-contributing countries for all the costs they incurred. The results of the survey clearly showed that still to be the case for most troopcontributing countries, including his own. The reimbursement system should therefore be examined from the standpoint of how much of the costs should be covered by each troop-contributing country. His delegation would welcome discussion of how the data collected on the common and essential additional costs of peacekeeping could lead to an equitable, predictable and sustainable system of reimbursing the costs of providing troops, as envisaged by the Senior Advisory Group.
28. Regarding the risk and key enabler premiums, the Secretariat should provide further explanations of how it intended to administer and fund those payments. His delegation also had a number of questions about the sustainability of the funding mechanisms proposed by the Secretary-General and wondered whether there was an alternative way to implement those mechanisms in a fair, equitable, transparent and sustainable manner. Similarly, his delegation welcomed the steady implementation of the mechanism for deductions from personnel reimbursements in respect of absent or non-functioning major equipment, in which regard he noted that the 10 per cent threshold in respect of the
absence or non-functionality of vehicles had provided a benchmark to define performance for other major equipment. He asked for further explanation.
29. Mr. Lieberman (United States of America), expressing profound appreciation for all United Nations peacekeepers, who served with distinction around the world, said that, bearing in mind the concerns expressed by troop-contributing countries regarding the current reimbursement rate and the fiscal realities faced by many Governments, his delegation's goal was to reach a consensus on a fair and sustainable troop reimbursement rate in order to strengthen the peacekeeping partnership and improve mission effectiveness. That partnership relied on contributions from all Member States, and the reimbursement system had always been intended to offset, but not fully compensate for, all costs. Any agreement reached by the Committee must be sustainable in an environment of expanding peacekeeping requirements and finite resources.
30. The standard rate of reimbursement for troops had been established in 1974 to help to defray the costs incurred by troop-contributing countries in the course of their participation in United Nations peacekeeping operations. Reimbursement should take into consideration the general principles set out in General Assembly resolution 55/274 - simplicity, equity, transparency, comprehensiveness, portability, financial control and audited and confirmed delivery of specified services - while cost surveys should identify the common and essential additional costs incurred by troop-contributing countries. However, problems with the availability of data had plagued the system from the start, leading to entirely arbitrary, ad hoc revisions of the standard rates in July 2001 and January 2002. A new survey methodology established in 2009 to address that problem had been essentially dead on arrival owing to its complexity and the low level of response. His delegation therefore extended its appreciation to the 10 troop-contributing countries that had volunteered to provide data as a representative sample under the revised survey methodology, and to the Secretariat for its efforts in facilitating the process. As a result of those efforts, the General Assembly had, for the first time in decades, a better understanding of actual costs incurred by troop- and police-contributing countries as a result of their participation in peacekeeping.
6/12
14-04128
A/C.5/68/SR.38
31. However, the survey also clearly demonstrated the challenges inherent in establishing a standard reimbursement rate to cover personnel from countries with vastly disparate economic situations, bureaucratic processes and structures, and military and police practices and traditions. The allowances category, in particular, suffered from problems of comparability. Nevertheless, the survey would contribute to an informed discussion of the issue. There were, however, other factors that must be considered. The weighted average presented in the Secretary-General's report was only one possible method of summarizing the results of the data, other methods were also appropriate. Moreover, since its inception, the standard rate of reimbursement to troop-contributing countries had never been intended to fully cover the costs of deployment; instead it took into consideration the average absorption factor, a measure of the percentage of costs reported that were not covered by the reimbursement rate.
32. As some troop-contributing countries had pointed out, the reimbursement rate directly affected the sustainability of their continued contribution to peacekeeping missions. The reimbursement rate also affected the overall cost and sustainability of Governments' financing of United N ations peacekeeping operations at a time of continued austerity and increasing demands for new and expanded peacekeeping operations. The constraints were real, resources were finite, and the current trend of continually growing peacekeeping costs was simply not sustainable. Nobody would win and everybody would lose if major contributors were unable to fully support the growing demand for peacekeeping.
33. Mr. Sahebzada Khan (Pakistan) said that implementation of resolution 67/261 was one of the most important agenda items before the Committee at the second part of the resumed session, and that while it might appear to be a difficult question, it simply required Member States to honour their commitments. Peacekeeping operations were more diverse than ever, with increasingly complex mandates, covering a broad range of political, security and peacebuilding goals. His country was proud to be the largest troop contributor to those operations, with over 8,000 boots on the ground - its most tangible contribution to the United Nations efforts to maintain international peace and security.
34. The new framework for troop cost reimbursement was a compromise resulting from a prolonged and arduous process. Following the completion of the technically sound survey of the sample countries, the General Assembly now had the necessary empirical evidence to take a decision on the rate of reimbursement, as called for by the Senior Advisory Group. Discussions should therefore focus on the results of the survey, rather than questioning the credibility of the survey process, regarding which his delegation had no doubts. The Committee could not afford a relapse into political considerations. Delegations were tired of package deals, supplementary and ad hoc payments, artificial absorptions by the Secretariat, and intermediary relief. Troop-contributing countries had endured hardship for far too long. Reopening the agreement reached under resolution 67/261, which had struck a delicate balance between the interests of all stakeholders, would harm the spirit of partnership and impact on troopcontributing countries' participation and the delivery of mandates in the field. Troop-contributing countries had kept their side of the bargain; he expected other delegations to do the same.
35. Mr. Koncke (Uruguay) said that, as Uruguay was one of the 10 sample countries that had participated in the survey, his delegation wished to express appreciation for the transparency demonstrated in the process, the constant interaction between the survey team and the national authorities, and the confidentiality in handling the data. His Government was committed to contributing to world peace and security through United Nations peacekeeping operations.
36. The Organization depended on all Member States to identify, prepare and deploy personnel with the necessary skills and experience to meet the demands of contemporary peacekeeping operations, which were increasingly complex and challenging. The greatest challenge that Member States faced in the current global financial climate was the scarcity of resources. In the light of the survey results, the standard reimbursement rates clearly needed to be adjusted to reflect the rising costs borne by troop- and policecontributing countries. After so many years of stagnation, it was crucial for the Committee to take the opportunity to create a better structure of financial incentives for troop-contributing countries. He urged the Committee to engage in dynamic, open and constructive dialogue in order to reach a fair agreement
14-04128
7/12
A/C.5/68/SR.38
in the interest of the sustainability and efficiency of peacekeeping operations.
37. Mr. Momen (Bangladesh) said that, in accordance with its constitutional commitment to the peaceful settlement of international disputes and respect for international law, as well as its responsibilities under the Charter, his country had contributed thousands of peacekeepers to different missions around the world over the years. He paid tribute to all those who had died to maintain international peace, stability and security, including 112 valiant Bangladeshi peacekeepers, and to those who risked their lives in various peacekeeping missions under the umbrella of the United Nations.
38. As Bangladesh was a major troop-contributing country, his delegation attached great importance to policy matters related to the administrative and budgetary aspects of financing United Nations peacekeeping operations, particularly the rates of reimbursement for troop-contributing countries, which represented only 44 per cent of the total peacekeeping budget. While the salaries and benefits of others working for the Organization were regularly reviewed using comparators, troop costs and other reimbursements relating to peacekeepers had not been thoroughly reviewed since 2002, which effectively amounted to discrimination. As a result, troopcontributing countries faced a difficult financial burden that threatened the sustainability of their participation in peacekeeping operations.
39. As a member of the Senior Advisory Group, he recalled that it had recommended carrying out a survey to collect information on the essential and additional costs incurred in deploying uniformed personnel to United Nations peacekeeping operations so that the decision on the rate of reimbursement would have a clear empirical basis. With those results before it, the Committee should honour the consensus embodied by resolution 67/261, and reduce the gap between the current reimbursement rate and the financial costs of troop-contributing countries.
40. Mr. Bishnoi (India) said that peacekeeping operations were increasingly complex, dynamic and challenging, and were conducted in circumstances that were ever more volatile and unpredictable. The troopcontributing countries put the lives of their soldiers at risk in the service of the United Nations by defending the Charter objective of maintaining international
peace and security. Fair, equitable and adequate reimbursement was therefore an essential element in the mutual obligations that bound the Organization to the troop-contributing countries. Yet the reimbursement rate for troop-contributing countries had remained largely unchanged since the early 1970s, placing a difficult burden on the troop-contributing countries and jeopardizing the sustainability of their participation in peacekeeping operations. In recognition of those facts, the General Assembly had set up the Senior Advisory Group to look into the matter and had adopted its recommendations.
41. His country was fully committed to contributing to peacekeeping operations to maintain peace and security, as demonstrated by the contribution over the years of some 170,000 troops, of whom 158 had made the supreme sacrifice, to 43 peacekeeping missions. As a member of the Senior Advisory Group and survey participant, his Government commended the Secretariat and the Secretary-General on the objective, diligent and scientific manner in which the survey had been conducted, in accordance with the methodology proposed by the Senior Advisory Group and approved by the General Assembly. Questioning the credibility of aspects of the methodology would only be detrimental to the whole exercise and undermine the lengthy and intense discussions that had been needed to adopt resolution 67/261. His delegation completely opposed any such attempt. The primary task before the Committee was to consider the empirical findings of the survey and to decide on an enhanced rate of reimbursement in accordance with those findings.
42. While his delegation welcomed the SecretaryGeneral's proposal to establish a dedicated fund to finance the payment of premiums to troop-contributing countries for enabling capacities and for units exposed to exceptional risks, it regretted the manner in which the Working Group on Contingent-Owned Equipment had concluded its work in early 2014. The daily allowances and rest and recuperation stipend paid directly to troops by the United Nations had been stagnant for the past 20 and 10 years respectively, an anomaly that had been highlighted by the Senior Advisory Group, but requests by troop-contributing countries for their revision had not been agreed to. The Working Group had proposed only a negligible increase in the overall contingent-owned equipment rates, an approach that would clearly be detrimental to the wider peacekeeping partnership and sustainability
8/12
14-04128
A/C.5/68/SR.38
of peacekeeping operations. If the Committee were to discard scientific, empirical results and base its deliberations on ad hoc considerations, the adoption of resolution 67/261, a compromise made in good faith, and the enormous effort by those who had participated in the survey, would all have been in vain.
43. Mr. dos Santos (Brazil) said that the complexity of peacekeeping mandates and their operational requirements had changed significantly in the past decade, which in turn had affected troop- and policecontributing countries, owing to the predeployment training requirements, the high standards for equipment, and the need for a broad array of specialized units. Above all, troop-contributing countries had to commit to deploying their citizens in more complex and dangerous operations, putting their lives at greater risk. While new requirements and expectations with regard to troop and police performance had evolved, the debate on a revision of the rates of reimbursement to troop- and police-contributing countries had stalled, exacerbating an already unfair and inequitable situation.
44. The concept of partnership was based on sharing the burden of a joint undertaking, not just the benefits. For too long, troop-contributing countries had recovered only a fraction of the costs incurred by committing their military resources to the peacekeeping partnership. Resolution 67/261 had been adopted following important concessions by troop-contributing countries, on the understanding that the framework adopted would lead to a meaningful increase in the reimbursement rate.
45. His delegation considered the new framework for the review of troop reimbursement costs to be the most important outcome of that resolution, as it reflected the consensus achieved on the principles to guide the review process and on the elements to be considered in the calculation of the new rate, including aspects related to current peacekeeping trends, particularly the importance of preparing and training troops prior to deployment. Moreover, the Assembly had agreed that the standard rate of reimbursement would be reviewed regularly, based on data collected from all troopcontributing countries.
46. Thanking the Secretary-General for his diligent work, he said that, as a participant in the survey, his Government considered that the new framework for troop reimbursement, in addition to its direct benefits in terms of the fairness, predictability and transparency
of the reimbursement system, had contributed significantly to enhancing the dialogue between troopcontributing countries and the Secretariat. It was critical to the renewed partnership for the Secretariat to have a better understanding of the efforts made by troop- and police-contributing countries as part of their commitment to peacekeeping operations.
47. Member States now had all the elements and data that they had requested in order to take a decision on the establishment of a new rate, which was essential to maintaining the work carried out by the Organization to promote international peace and security. The results of the survey clearly demonstrated the gap between the current reimbursement rate and the financial costs incurred by troop-contributing countries. The Committee must therefore rise to the challenge of finding a solution that was not only fair to troopcontributing countries, but would also maintain the sustainability of the peacekeeping partnership.
48. Mr. Ko Jae Sin (Republic of Korea) said that, as troop reimbursement rates had barely increased in over 20 years, the results of the first survey since 1996 in connection with troop-contributing country reimbursement represented a meaningful step forward; the report contained invaluable measures to improve the methodology. In the light of inflation and the growing complexity of peacekeeping operations as well as the inherent dangers, the decision to establish new standard rates was both timely and necessary. At the same time, the financial pressure of peacekeeping budgets must also be considered. The peacekeeping budget for 2014/15 would probably amount to more than $8 billion, owing to additional expenditures resulting from the establishment of new missions, such as the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic (MINUSCA), and the strengthening of existing operations, such as the United Nations Mission in South Sudan (UNMISS). Budget requirements continued to grow, yet the economies of many Member States were still in recovery. The Committee should therefore seek a reasonable outcome that reflected those two equally important considerations. His delegation shared concerns that new troop reimbursement rates would lead to continuously increasing expenditure, and would therefore review the proposed reimbursement structure prudently.
49. With regard to the actual costs incurred by troopcontributing countries, his delegation had concerns
14-04128
9/12
A/C.5/68/SR.38
about the costs used to calculate the standard structure, as there was a very high variance in the costs incurred by the sample countries, as there was in their income levels. Ways of sharing the financing of the new premiums with troop-contributing countries should be explored, given their nature and the benefits to national military capabilities. Lastly, their implementation should be gradual in order to avoid a sudden increase in expenditure.
50. Ms. Byaje (Rwanda) said that over the 10 years that her country had been contributing troops and police units, peacekeeping operations had become more complex and multifaceted. Rwanda was a major troopcontributing country, and as such was more committed than ever to peacekeeping operations. Rwandan troops were serving in missions in very difficult operating conditions. She therefore attached great importance to the rate of reimbursement to troop-contributing countries.
51. The data gathered in previous surveys had been incomplete and inadequate for comprehensive analysis and had not allowed the Assembly to take informed decisions on the rate of reimbursement, which had not been revised since 2002. She therefore commended the Secretary-General on the recent successful survey, which had achieved a 100 per cent response rate, and on preserving the confidentiality of the data collected. As Rwanda was one of the Member States that had participated in the survey, she could vouch for the openness and transparency of the process, thanks to constant communication with the Secretariat, an important factor in the success of the survey. In addition, the field visits to the surveyed countries had provided the Secretariat with an opportunity to comprehend fully the nature of troop deployment costs and had been critical to producing quality data. There would be no better occasion to do justice to the women and men in the field.
52. Under the new framework, five categories of costs were now rightfully recognized as a burden to troop- and police-contributing countries, instead of just two. There were, however, still a number of other significant costs incurred by troop-contributing countries, such as post-deployment inland transportation, additional medical check-ups, and demobilization at the end of a tour of duty; nevertheless, her delegation believed that the Secretary-General's report had captured the costs in accordance with the mandated survey.
53. Mr. Khalizov (Russian Federation) said that reviewing the rates of reimbursement to troopcontributing countries was one of the most important and complex issues before the Committee at the second part of the resumed session. The matter had been before the Committee for a number of years, but, thus far, delegations had not been able to reconcile the differing approaches proposed to resolve it. His delegation understood the concerns expressed by the troop-contributing countries; while economic development meant that Member States incurred higher costs when they contributed troops, many elements of the current reimbursement framework had not been revised by the General Assembly since 2002, and the daily allowance had not changed since it was introduced in 1974. It was therefore only fair to request an adjustment, but delegations could not ignore the overall financial context that surrounded United Nations peacekeeping operations.
54. The overall cost of peacekeeping operations in 2014/15 was expected to reach a record level of $8 billion, a significant percentage of which would be used to reimburse troop- and police-contributing countries. Revising the rates of reimbursement would have significant financial implications for the Organization, so any decision on the revision of those rates must be justified and realistic. Should the Committee decide to revise the reimbursement rates, the Secretariat should make additional efforts to implement cost savings elsewhere and to increase the overall effectiveness of peacekeeping. Lastly, he expressed the hope that the question would not be politicized and that the Committee's deliberations would be effective and constructive.
55. Mr. Sarki (Nigeria) paid tribute to the military and civilian personnel who had lost their lives in peacekeeping operations, and to the courage of those still serving in the various missions around the world. It was not fair to those personnel who had sacrificed their lives for international peace and security that the daily allowance for uniformed personnel had stagnated for 40 years. The recreational leave allowance, last reviewed in 2009, also needed to be upgraded to reflect current realities. Commending the Secretary-General on the revised survey to establish the standard rate of reimbursement to troop- and police-contributing countries and welcoming the outcome, he said that although the survey did not cover all costs incurred by troop-contributing countries, the previous difficulties
10/12
14-04128
A/C.5/68/SR.38
in finding an effective, transparent and equitable system for the regular review of the rate of personnel reimbursement appeared to have been largely overcome.
56. Nigeria had been a key troop-contributing country to international, regional and subregional peacekeeping operations for over 50 years, and his delegation considered troop reimbursement rates to be of the utmost importance. The sacrifice of one's life for the survival of others could not be quantified and the welfare of peacekeeping personnel transcended monetary considerations. The processes of creating mandates and funding peacekeeping operations must take into account the well-being of personnel. Peacekeepers in different theatres of conflict around the world often came under fire, or were abducted, hijacked or killed by armed groups. The Senior Advisory Group's report had underscored the significant changes in peacekeeping operations, including the growing complexity of mandated tasks, heightened hostility and increasing risks. In addition to the reimbursement framework, receiving States could also play a significant role in improving the welfare of peacekeepers.
57. Although Member States repeatedly complained about the shortage of resources when discussing the allocation of funds for the maintenance of peace and security, the scarcity of resources affected all countries proportionally. Threats to international peace and security had become borderless, and concerted efforts on the part of States were needed to re-establish stability. That could not be achieved without adequate resource mobilization. As noted by the former Permanent Representative of the United States to the United Nations, testifying before the United States House Foreign Affairs Committee in July 2009, the costs of inaction would likely be far greater, both in blood and treasure. When key Member States took such a stance, all others should follow their cue, in the higher interest of peace and security.
Agenda item 156: Financing of the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (A/68/578, A/68/701 and A/68/782/Add.5)
Agenda item 165: Financing of the activities arising from Security Council resolution 1863 (2009)
(A/68/605, A/68/745 and A/68/782/Add.9)
58. Ms. Casar (Controller), introducing the budget performance report for 2012/13 and the budget for 2014/15 for the United Nations Interim Administration
Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK) (A/68/578 and A/68/701), said that the budget for 2014/15 reflected the net abolishment of 10 international posts and one United Nations Volunteer position, primarily as a result of the reconfiguration and restructuring of the support component. It also reflected the conversion of six international posts to national posts and the net establishment of eight national posts, as a result of the emphasis placed on the capacity-building of national staff.
59. Turning to the budget performance report for 2012/13 and the budget for 2014/15 for the United Nations Support Office for the African Union Mission in Somalia (UNSOA) (A/68/605 and A/68/745), she said that the budget for 2014/15 reflected the increase in the authorized force strength of the African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM) from 17,731 to 22,126, in accordance with Security Council resolution 2124 (2013), and the related increase in the scale and scope of the support provided by UNSOA. The budget therefore provided for 88 additional posts and positions to support the expanded AMISOM force strength, including in support of functions funded under the United Nations Assistance Mission in Somalia (UNSOM) budget until 30 June 2014.
60. Mr. Ruiz Massieu (Chair of the Advisory
Committee on Administrative and Budgetary
Questions), introducing the related reports of the Advisory Committee (A/68/782/Add.5 and
A/68/782/Add.9), said that with regard to the proposed budget for UNMIK for 2014/15, the Advisory
Committee recommended an increase of $203,500, as it was not convinced by the rationale provided for the proposed abolishment of the Conduct and Discipline post at the P-4 level in UNMIK, particularly since that action would be coupled with a proposal to establish a separate P-4 level post in the United Nations Logistics Base, a non-mission location, for undertaking global conduct and discipline functions. The Advisory Committee therefore recommended against the
proposed abolishment of the post in UNMIK. UNMIK should also undertake additional efforts to fill all its vacant posts expeditiously.
61. Turning to the proposed budget for UNSOA, the Advisory Committee's recommendations would entail a reduction of $2,242,100. Under civilian personnel, the Advisory Committee recommended the application of phased deployment, commencing six months into the 2014/15 budget period, of the new National
14-04128
11/12
A/C.5/68/SR.38
Professional Officers, National General Service staff, United Nations Volunteers and temporary positions, except for the posts and positions to be transferred from UNSOM. Under operational costs, the Advisory Committee was of the view that the provision of $1,929,600 in the UNSOA budget for security services within the Mogadishu International Airport represented double budgeting for the same services included in the UNSOM budget. Since the Advisory Committee had recommended approval of those resources under the UNSOM budget, it recommended against approval of the amount of $1,929,600 for security services in the UNSOA budget.
62. Ms. Plakalovic (Serbia) said that her country strongly supported the important role of UNMIK and the continuous active engagement of the United Nations in the province of Kosovo and Metohija in order to ensure security, stability and respect for human rights. The Mission's neutral-status approach was the only acceptable framework in which all stakeholders could work together to improve the lives of ordinary people in Kosovo. UNMIK therefore required adequate staffing and financing, yet there was a persistent tendency to downsize and reduce the number of international personnel in UNMIK, particularly in the substantive component. Sufficient numbers of personnel were key to the successful implementation of the Mission's mandate, and it was far from certain that a downsized UNMIK would be able to carry out the tasks envisaged in the budget proposal, such as verifying the number of returnees and internally displaced persons, protecting minority communities, monitoring human rights compliance and implementing confidence-building projects, in addition to its advisory role in the dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina. The successful implementation of the Mission's mandate was of paramount importance to all concerned, primarily the Serbian and non-Albanian population in Kosovo and Metohija, whose rights continued to be violated and whose freedom of movement and security were under threat.
63. With regard to the elevated number of international vacancies, the Advisory Committee's report had revealed that it was the result of several factors, including delays in recruitment, reassignments and higher than expected attrition and separations. Furthermore, posts that had been proposed for abolishment in the 2014/15 budget were deliberately not filled. Her delegation concurred with the Advisory
Committee and believed that the Mission should undertake additional efforts to fill its vacant posts, and called on the Secretary-General to ensure that vacant posts were filled expeditiously, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 66/264.
The meeting rose at 12.15 p.m.
12/12
14-04128