United Nations
A/C.5/68/SR.42
General Assembly
Sixty-eighth session
Official Records
Distr.: General 17 July 2014
Original: English
Fifth Committee
Summary record of the 42nd meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Wednesday, 28 May 2014, at 10 a.m.
Chair: Mr. Taalas (Finland)
Chair of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions: Mr. Ruiz Massieu
Contents
Agenda item 134: Programme budget for the biennium 2014-2015 (continued)
Estimates in respect of special political missions, good offices and other political initiatives authorized by the General Assembly and/or the Security Council (continued)
Thematic cluster III: United Nations Support Mission in Libya
This record is subject to correction. Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Control Unit (srcorrections@un.org). and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
14-54194 (E)
in i in i iimwmwv
Please recycle
A/C.5/68/SR.42
The meeting was called to order at 10 a.m.
Agenda item 134: Programme budget for the biennium 2014-2015 (continued)
Estimates in respect of special political missions, good offices and other political initiatives authorized by the General Assembly and/or the Security Council (continued)
Thematic cluster III: United Nations Support Mission in Libya
(A/68/7/Add.28 and A/68/327/Add.12)
1. Mr. Huisman (Director, Programme Planning and Budget Division), introducing the report of the Secretary-General on the proposed additional resource requirements for 2014 for the United Nations Support Mission in Libya (UNSMIL) (A/68/327/Add.12), said that those requirements related mainly to the enhancement of security arrangements, including the proposed strengthening of the Security Section by an additional 80 positions, and the proposed establishment of an additional 15 positions in the Mission Support Division, as well as additional operational costs.
2. The resources requested totalled $22.8 million, net of staff assessment, to be charged against the provision for special political missions, under section
3. Political affairs, of the programme budget for the biennium 2014-2015.
3. Mr. Ruiz Massieu (Chair of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions), introducing the related report of the Advisory Committee (A/68/7/Add.28), said that the recommendations of the Advisory Committee would entail a reduction of $60,500 in the proposed additional net requirements of $22.8 million, in the areas of civilian staffing and information technology.
4. The Advisory Committee noted the deteriorating security situation in Libya and concurred with the Secretary-General's proposal to strengthen and restructure the Security Section in order to increase its ability to provide security for the Mission and its staff. In that regard, the Advisory Committee had no objection to the 80 international staff proposed by the Secretary-General for the Security Section. However, some of the additional support functions could be performed using existing staffing capacity in the Mission Support Division. The Advisory Committee
therefore recommended against the establishment of one United Nations Volunteer position and one Local level position in the Mission Support Division.
5. Regarding the staff assigned to the Mission on temporary duty assignments, the Advisory Committee reiterated its view that such assignments should be used to address specific circumstances in missions that required a rapid, time-bound, temporary capacity, and that the sending missions should be fully reimbursed for the related salary costs of the staff members. The Advisory Committee also recommended modest reductions in the requested resources for information technology equipment to bring the holding into line with the provisions of the Standard Cost and Ratio Manual.
6. Ms. Pacunega Manano (Uganda), speaking on behalf of the Group of African States, said that the Group welcomed the request for additional resources for UNSMIL to strengthen and restructure the Security Section so as to increase its ability to provide security for the Mission and its staff, as well as for operational requirements, including mine clearing services.
7. The Group would scrutinize the proposals, together with the recommendations of the Advisory Committee, to ensure that the Mission had all the resources it needed to deliver its mandate.
The meeting rose at 10.10 a.m.
2/2
14-54194